# Key Terms (SRV)

## License Information

**Key Terms (SRV)** is based on and adapted from: _Familiarization, Internalization, Articulation (Fia) Terms_, [SRV Partners](https://srvpartners.org/home/), 2023, which is licensed under a [CC BY-SA 4.0 license](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/4.0/legalcode.en).

This markdown version is provided under the same license.



--------------------------------

## clean/unclean (id: 280195)

The words "clean" and "unclean" in the Bible are not talking about whether something is clean or dirty from the outside. In the Bible, a **clean** person means a person who is fit for service to God\-someone who is acceptable to participate in worship to God. A person who is **unclean** is unfit for service to God. Animals and even objects can also be clean or unclean.

Being clean is the normal state of a person, but a person could become unclean if they did not follow the rules of cleanness. The rules about which things were clean or unclean helped the Israelites remember that they were God's special people. Just as an object that is clean has to be kept away from something that is unclean, the Israelites had to stay away from unclean things. These things might be unclean animals or objects, or unclean actions like sin.

The rules about clean and unclean also helped people remember that God gives life, and that without God there is death. Blood and sickness are associated with death. That is why someone who was sick or bleeding was unclean. A dead body was the most unclean thing of all.

Uncleanliness was also contagious. If an unclean person touched a clean person, then the clean person became unclean. If a clean person touched an unclean object\-for instance, a bloodied piece of cloth\-the clean person became unclean. If a clean person touched a dead body, then the clean person became unclean as well.

The distinction between clean and unclean was very important in the worship of God. Nothing that was unclean could enter the temple. God had appointed priests to take care of the temple. The priests had to be very careful to remain clean.

If someone was unclean because they had been menstruating, had had sexual relations, or had touched a dead body, they needed to wait a certain amount of time and then take a bath. After that, they were clean again.

If someone had a skin disease, they were unclean until the priest confirmed that they were healed. The person who was healed then had to offer an animal sacrifice to God. After that, he was considered clean again.

God told the Israelites which animals they could eat and not eat. For instance, they could eat goats, sheep, cows, and certain birds. These animals were clean. Animals they could not eat included pigs, wild animals, and reptiles. If a person ate an unclean animal, the person would become unclean.

When people brought a sacrifice to God, they could only offer a clean animal. The animal had to be completely healthy as well. Otherwise, it would still be unclean and unsuitable for sacrifice.

In the Old Testament, people could become unclean either by sin or by touching an unclean thing. An animal could be unclean by nature.

However, in the New Testament, Jesus teaches the people that being clean is not just a matter of staying away from certain foods or from taking a ritual bath. Jesus teaches us that we become unclean if we think evil thoughts and do wrong things. These things make us unfit to serve or worship God. We become unclean if we disobey God. That is why evil spirits are often called "unclean spirits," because they are rebelling against God.

After Jesus went back to heaven, more and more people became his followers. Among them were also people who were not Jews. The church at first thought that people who were not Jews were unclean, and could therefore not become part of God's people. But God taught the church that the old rules about who or what was clean no longer counted. People from all nations were welcome with God, and it was no longer important what someone ate or did not eat. Jesus had made people clean. What was important now was to stay clean by staying away from sin.

* **Associated Passages:** ACT 10:9–ACT 10:23; ACT 11:1–ACT 11:18; ACT 21:15–ACT 21:26; GEN 8:20–GEN 9:17; GEN 7:1–GEN 7:24; LUK 5:12–LUK 5:16; LUK 7:18–LUK 7:35; LUK 17:11–LUK 17:19; MAT 23:23–MAT 23:28; MRK 1:40–MRK 1:45; MAT 15:1–MAT 15:20; MAT 8:1–MAT 8:17; MAT 11:1–MAT 11:6; JHN 18:28–JHN 18:40; ACT 15:22–ACT 15:35; LUK 11:33–LUK 11:54; ACT 10:23–ACT 10:33
* **Associated Articles:** worship (ID: `280052@FIAKeyTerms`); worship (ID: `341048@FIAKeyTerms`); sin (ID: `280057@FIAKeyTerms`); temple (ID: `280063@FIAKeyTerms`); sin (ID: `341053@FIAKeyTerms`); temple (ID: `341062@FIAKeyTerms`); evil (ID: `280071@FIAKeyTerms`); nation (ID: `280075@FIAKeyTerms`); Jew (ID: `280105@FIAKeyTerms`); sacrifice (ID: `280139@FIAKeyTerms`); evil (ID: `341071@FIAKeyTerms`); nation (ID: `341075@FIAKeyTerms`); Jew (ID: `341109@FIAKeyTerms`); sacrifice (ID: `341147@FIAKeyTerms`); Israelite (ID: `280142@FIAKeyTerms`); priest (ID: `280194@FIAKeyTerms`); heaven (ID: `280214@FIAKeyTerms`); Israelite (ID: `341150@FIAKeyTerms`); priest (ID: `341214@FIAKeyTerms`); heaven (ID: `341236@FIAKeyTerms`)

