# Familiarization, Internalization, Articulation (FIA) Key Terms

## License Information

**Familiarization, Internalization, Articulation (FIA) Key Terms** is based on and adapted from: _Familiarization, Internalization, Articulation (Fia) Terms_, [SRV Partners](https://srvpartners.org/home/), 2023, which is licensed under a [CC BY-SA 4.0 license](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/4.0/legalcode.en).

This markdown version is provided under the same license.



--------------------------------

## baptism (id: 280134)

To **baptize** someone, or something, means to immerse it in water to wash it. It comes from the Greek word "baptizo."

The word has a special religious meaning. In the Old Testament, Jewish priests would baptize themselves before they would do their work in the temple of God. This made them "clean" so that they were fit to approach God.

When people who were not Jewish wanted to follow God, they could be baptized. After that, they would be accepted as part of God's people. We do not hear about this custom in the Old Testament, but we know about it from other books from the history of the Jews.

When John the baptizer came, he did something new by telling all the people that they should take baptism. Being born as a Jew wasn't enough to be part of God's people! All people needed to repent, to say sorry for the bad things that they had done. They needed to turn away from their old life, and to start a new way of living. They should start obeying God!

Just before Jesus went back to heaven, he told his disciples to go and tell people everywhere that Jesus has all authority. Jesus told them to make all people Jesus's disciples, and to baptize them in the name of the father, the son, and the Holy Spirit.

And so, from that time onwards, we see that as soon as people began to believe in Jesus they took baptism. This baptism was a sign of their repentance and need for forgiveness. But it was also a sign that they now belonged to Jesus and wanted to follow him.

Paul, in his letters, explains that when we take baptism it is as if we die and become alive again. We die by going under in the water, and become alive again by coming up out of the water. This is a symbol showing that our old life is dead. We now have a new life because we belong to Jesus. Jesus died for us, and became alive again. When we take baptism, we accept that Jesus died in our place, and that we are new people because God has forgiven us. Just as water cleanses our bodies from dirt, Jesus has "cleansed" us from our sins. Now we are fit to approach God!

The ritual of baptism was something that only needed to be done once.

**When you are translating baptism, be careful about the following things:**

The word baptism, and to baptize someone, can be difficult to translate. Many people use a word that sounds like the Greek word "baptizo." New believers will have to slowly learn what this word means. You can also use a term that would be more meaningful for the people in your language group. If people in your community have a form of ritual bathing, this word might be helpful in translating baptism. However, be sure you understand the meaning of the ritual in your community, and think about the difference between the meaning of that ritual and baptism in the Bible. You may need to explain how baptism in the Bible is different from the ritual in your community.

You can also use a word that sounds like "baptizo," but then add a small phrase to give more explanation about its meaning.

* **Associated Passages:** ACT 8:4–ACT 8:25; ACT 8:26–ACT 8:40; ACT 9:1–ACT 9:19; ACT 11:1–ACT 11:18; ACT 18:24–ACT 18:28; ACT 19:1–ACT 19:7; JHN 4:1–JHN 4:15; LUK 3:15–LUK 3:22; LUK 3:1–LUK 3:14; MAT 28:16–MAT 28:20; MAT 21:23–MAT 21:32; MRK 1:1–MRK 1:13; MRK 10:32–MRK 10:45; MRK 11:27–MRK 11:33; MRK 16:9–MRK 16:20; JHN 3:22–JHN 3:36; JHN 1:29–JHN 1:34; ACT 18:1–ACT 18:17; JHN 1:19–JHN 1:28; ACT 2:37–ACT 2:41; JHN 10:22–JHN 10:42; MAT 3:1–MAT 3:17; ACT 21:37–ACT 22:21; ACT 16:6–ACT 16:15; ACT 16:25–ACT 16:40; ACT 1:1–ACT 1:5; ACT 10:34–ACT 10:48; LUK 12:49–LUK 12:59; LUK 19:45–LUK 20:8
* **Associated Articles:** John the Baptist (ID: `280048@FIAKeyTerms`); John the Baptist (ID: `341043@FIAKeyTerms`); forgiveness (ID: `280051@FIAKeyTerms`); temple (ID: `280063@FIAKeyTerms`); forgiveness (ID: `341047@FIAKeyTerms`); temple (ID: `341062@FIAKeyTerms`); Jew (ID: `280105@FIAKeyTerms`); authority (ID: `280107@FIAKeyTerms`); repentance (ID: `280176@FIAKeyTerms`); priest (ID: `280194@FIAKeyTerms`); Jew (ID: `341109@FIAKeyTerms`); authority (ID: `341112@FIAKeyTerms`); repentance (ID: `341192@FIAKeyTerms`); priest (ID: `341214@FIAKeyTerms`); clean/unclean (ID: `280195@FIAKeyTerms`); disciple (ID: `280210@FIAKeyTerms`); heaven (ID: `280214@FIAKeyTerms`); Holy Spirit (ID: `280222@FIAKeyTerms`); greeks (ID: `341026@FIAKeyTerms`); greeks (ID: `341159@FIAKeyTerms`); clean/unclean (ID: `341215@FIAKeyTerms`); disciple (ID: `341232@FIAKeyTerms`); heaven (ID: `341236@FIAKeyTerms`); Holy Spirit (ID: `341246@FIAKeyTerms`)

