# Familiarization, Internalization, Articulation (FIA) Key Terms

## License Information

**Familiarization, Internalization, Articulation (FIA) Key Terms** is based on and adapted from: _Familiarization, Internalization, Articulation (Fia) Terms_, [SRV Partners](https://srvpartners.org/home/), 2023, which is licensed under a [CC BY-SA 4.0 license](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/4.0/legalcode.en).

This markdown version is provided under the same license.



--------------------------------

## circumcision (id: 280120)

Circumcision is the Jewish custom of cutting off the loose skin at the end of a boy's penis. The father of the baby, or someone who was specially trained, usually did this. Circumcision happened when a baby boy was eight days old.

The custom began when God told Abraham to circumcise himself and every male person in his household. The circumcision was a sign that the person was included in the covenant that God had made with Abraham. From that time onwards, every male Israelite had to be circumcised. If someone who was not a descendant of Abraham wanted to become part of the Israelites and a part of the covenant the Israelites had with God, he had to be circumcised as well. Men had to be circumcised in order to be acceptable for God.

The Bible also talks about "circumcision of the heart." This is picture language for repenting and for dedicating yourself to God. Only when people have repented, or turned away from their sins, are they acceptable before God. The Israelites, or Jews, thought that they were better than all the other people in the world because they were circumcised. But God told them that being circumcised means nothing if people are not truly dedicated to God. Circumcision of the body is useless if the heart is not circumcised as well.

In the New Testament, the new believers in Jesus had different opinions about circumcision. Some Jewish Christians thought that all believers should be circumcised. They thought that only someone who was circumcised could really belong to God's people. Paul and the other apostles then taught the church that God no longer required circumcision of the body in order to belong to God's people. Instead, people need a spiritual circumcision of the heart: repentance, faith, and obedience to Jesus.

* **Associated Passages:** ACT 10:1–ACT 10:8; ACT 21:15–ACT 21:26; GEN 34:1–GEN 34:17; GEN 34:18–GEN 34:31; LUK 1:57–LUK 1:80; LUK 2:1–LUK 2:21; ACT 7:1–ACT 7:8; GEN 17:1–GEN 17:27; GEN 21:1–GEN 21:21; ACT 16:1–ACT 16:5; JHN 7:11–JHN 7:24; ACT 7:44–ACT 7:53; ACT 10:34–ACT 10:48; EXO 12:43–EXO 12:51; ACT 15:22–ACT 15:35; EXO 4:18–EXO 4:31
* **Associated Articles:** sin (ID: `280057@FIAKeyTerms`); sin (ID: `341053@FIAKeyTerms`); faith (ID: `280102@FIAKeyTerms`); Jew (ID: `280105@FIAKeyTerms`); faith (ID: `341105@FIAKeyTerms`); Jew (ID: `341109@FIAKeyTerms`); household (ID: `280151@FIAKeyTerms`); covenant (ID: `280165@FIAKeyTerms`); repentance (ID: `280176@FIAKeyTerms`); Abraham (ID: `280201@FIAKeyTerms`); household (ID: `341163@FIAKeyTerms`); covenant (ID: `341181@FIAKeyTerms`); repentance (ID: `341192@FIAKeyTerms`); Abraham (ID: `341221@FIAKeyTerms`)

