# Key Terms (SRV)

## License Information

**Key Terms (SRV)** is based on and adapted from: _Familiarization, Internalization, Articulation (Fia) Terms_, [SRV Partners](https://srvpartners.org/home/), 2023, which is licensed under a [CC BY-SA 4.0 license](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/4.0/legalcode.en).

This markdown version is provided under the same license.



--------------------------------

## Abraham (id: 280201)

Abraham was the first ancestor of the Israelites, the Jews. Abraham's name had been Abram, but God later changed his name to Abraham. Abraham means "the father of many nations."

Abraham lived about two thousand years before the birth of Jesus. He first lived in a region named Ur, which was somewhere east of Israel. Abraham's father Terah took his sons and their wives with him and left Ur, because he wanted to go to the country named Canaan, but he stopped in a place called Haran. This was still quite far away from Canaan. The family began to live there, and after some time Abraham's father died. Abraham and his family did not know God; they worshiped idols.

When Abraham was 75 years old, God spoke to him. God told him to leave behind his homeland, and to go to a place that God would show him. God said that he would bless Abraham, that he would make a great nation out of him, and that God would bless all the nations of the world through Abraham. And Abraham obeyed God! Together with his wife Sarah and his nephew Lot he set out on a long journey. When he came to Canaan, God told him that this was the country that he would give to Abraham and to his descendants.

However, Abraham did not have any descendants yet. He had no children, and he was already an old man! But he believed God's promise. And God was very pleased with Abraham's trust, and therefore he accepted Abraham as someone with whom God could have a good relationship.

But Abraham still had to wait for a long time before God gave him any descendants. He had to wait 25 more years, and during that time he made several mistakes and sometimes forgot to trust God. But eventually, when Abraham was 100 years old and his wife Sarah was 90 years old, Sarah gave birth to a son. How happy Abraham and Sarah were then! And they called their son "Isaac," which means laughter.

Then, after some years, God gave Abraham a very difficult test. God told Abraham that he had to sacrifice his son Isaac. He had to kill Isaac, and burn him as a gift for God! But by now Abraham had really learned to trust God, and he obeyed. And when Abraham had already lifted his knife to kill his son, God stopped him and praised Abraham! And God said that because Abraham had shown that he really trusted God and had obeyed him, now the blessing that God had promised to give to Abraham would continue also for Isaac, and Abraham's further generations. Through Abraham's descendants all the people of the world would be blessed!

And so, Isaac grew up and had two sons. The youngest son was Jacob. Jacob's name was later changed to Israel. Jacob, or Israel, had 12 sons. The descendants of these 12 sons became the 12 tribes of Israel. They became a big nation. And one of their descendants was Jesus! And through Jesus, all the people of the world are blessed. God has fulfilled his promise to Abraham!

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 8:1–GEN 8:19; LUK 1:57–LUK 1:80; LUK 3:1–LUK 3:14; LUK 13:10–LUK 13:17; JHN 8:31–JHN 8:47
* **Associated Articles:** nation (ID: `280075@FIAKeyTerms`); nation (ID: `341075@FIAKeyTerms`); Jew (ID: `280105@FIAKeyTerms`); Israelite (ID: `280142@FIAKeyTerms`); Jew (ID: `341109@FIAKeyTerms`); Israelite (ID: `341150@FIAKeyTerms`); bless (ID: `280199@FIAKeyTerms`); Canaan (ID: `341016@FIAKeyTerms`); idol (ID: `341024@FIAKeyTerms`); Canaan (ID: `341095@FIAKeyTerms`); idol (ID: `341152@FIAKeyTerms`); bless (ID: `341219@FIAKeyTerms`)

