# Familiarization, Internalization, Articulation (FIA) Key Terms

## License Information

**Familiarization, Internalization, Articulation (FIA) Key Terms** is based on and adapted from: _Familiarization, Internalization, Articulation (Fia) Terms_, [SRV Partners](https://srvpartners.org/home/), 2023, which is licensed under a [CC BY-SA 4.0 license](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/4.0/legalcode.en).

This markdown version is provided under the same license.



--------------------------------

## adultery (id: 280101)

**Adultery** is a form of sexual sin. God considers it a sin whenever people have a sexual relationship with someone to whom they are not married, but in the Old Testament the word adultery is used for a specific case. If a man has sexual relations with a woman who was married to someone else, both the man and woman are guilty of adultery. The punishment for adultery is death. However, if the woman is raped, only the man had to die.

When a man had sexual relations with an unmarried woman or slave, he had still disobeyed, or sinned, against God, but according to the Old Testament law, this sin is not in the category of adultery.

God hates adultery and every form of sexual sin. God often compares the disobedience of people to himself with adultery: When people are unfaithful to God and begin to worship idols and false gods, they are behaving just like a man and a woman who are unfaithful to their own husband or wife. Therefore, God calls idolatry\-the worship of idols or of any other god besides God himself\-a form of adultery.

In the New Testament, Jesus made the rules about adultery more strict. He said that if someone only *thought* about having a sexual relationship with someone they are not married to, this is already sin.

* **Associated Passages:** LUK 16:16–LUK 16:18; LUK 18:1–LUK 18:17; LUK 18:18–LUK 18:30; MAT 5:27–MAT 5:32; MAT 16:1–MAT 16:12; MAT 19:1–MAT 19:12; MRK 7:14–MRK 7:23; MRK 10:1–MRK 10:12; MRK 10:13–MRK 10:31; MAT 15:1–MAT 15:20; JHN 8:1–JHN 8:11; EXO 20:8–EXO 20:17
* **Associated Articles:** worship (ID: `280052@FIAKeyTerms`); worship (ID: `341048@FIAKeyTerms`); sin (ID: `280057@FIAKeyTerms`); slave (ID: `280197@FIAKeyTerms`); sin (ID: `341053@FIAKeyTerms`); slave (ID: `341217@FIAKeyTerms`); idol (ID: `341024@FIAKeyTerms`); idol (ID: `341152@FIAKeyTerms`)

