# Familiarization, Internalization, Articulation (FIA) Key Terms

## License Information

**Familiarization, Internalization, Articulation (FIA) Key Terms** is based on and adapted from: _Familiarization, Internalization, Articulation (Fia) Terms_, [SRV Partners](https://srvpartners.org/home/), 2023, which is licensed under a [CC BY-SA 4.0 license](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/4.0/legalcode.en).

This markdown version is provided under the same license.



--------------------------------

## crucifixion (id: 280129)

**Crucifixion** was the Roman way of executing people. It was only used for slaves and the worst criminals. Crucifixion was the most painful and humiliating way to die. Crucifixion means that someone is nailed to a cross and then left to die.

A cross is an upright piece of wood with another piece of wood\-a crossbeam\-attached to it sideways near the top. A person who would be crucified was first severely flogged, and then had to carry the crossbeam of the cross himself to the place of execution. The soldiers then laid the victim on top of the wooden cross, with his arms stretched wide. The soldiers then hammered large iron nails through the wrists\-or hands\-and feet of the victim, so that he became fixed to the cross. Sometimes the soldiers would only bind a person with rope and not use nails. Then the soldiers pulled the cross upright, and left the naked victim hanging till he died, in full view of other people. The victim could not move and was in constant pain. He would eventually die because of the pain, hunger, and thirst, or because he could no longer breathe properly. This could take several hours or even days. Sometimes the soldiers would make the victim die quicker by breaking his legs so that he could not hold himself up to breathe.

*You can look in the visual Bible dictionary for pictures of a cross.*

* **Associated Passages:** MAT 27:32–MAT 27:44; MAT 28:1–MAT 28:15; MAT 27:11–MAT 27:26; MAT 27:27–MAT 27:31; MRK 15:1–MRK 15:15; MRK 15:16–MRK 15:32; MRK 15:40–MRK 15:47; MRK 16:1–MRK 16:8; MAT 23:29–MAT 23:36; JHN 19:1–JHN 19:16; LUK 24:13–LUK 24:35; ACT 2:14–ACT 2:36; ACT 4:1–ACT 4:22; LUK 24:1–LUK 24:12; MAT 26:1–MAT 26:16; JHN 19:31–JHN 19:42; LUK 23:26–LUK 23:43; LUK 23:13–LUK 23:25
* **Associated Articles:** cross (ID: `280183@FIAKeyTerms`); cross (ID: `341202@FIAKeyTerms`); slave (ID: `280197@FIAKeyTerms`); slave (ID: `341217@FIAKeyTerms`)

