# Key Terms (SRV)

## License Information

**Key Terms (SRV)** is based on and adapted from: _Familiarization, Internalization, Articulation (Fia) Terms_, [SRV Partners](https://srvpartners.org/home/), 2023, which is licensed under a [CC BY-SA 4.0 license](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/4.0/legalcode.en).

This markdown version is provided under the same license.



--------------------------------

## David (id: 280046)

**David** was the second king of Israel. He lived about 1000 years before the birth of Jesus.

David was the youngest son of a man named Jesse. David took care of his father's sheep. Jesse and his family lived in the village called Bethlehem. David's older brothers were soldiers in the army of King Saul, the first king of Israel. King Saul had been disobedient to God, and so God had rejected him. Because of that, God instructed the prophet Samuel to anoint\-which means to appoint\-David as the next king. But that was a secret at first, and Saul remained king for several more years. David became a commander in the king's army, and God helped him so that, through David, Israel could win many battles. David was very popular with the people, and his best friend was Jonathan, a son of King Saul. King Saul became jealous of David and tried to kill him several times, so David had to flee. David gathered a group of men around him and lived away from the people in the mountains. The king sometimes chased after David, and David, more than once, had an opportunity to kill the king, but he never did.

One time, when King Saul and his army were fighting with some enemies, the Israelites lost a battle and King Saul and his sons were killed. After this, the people of Israel made David their king. David began to live in Jerusalem, which became the most important city in Israel.

David became Israel's most beloved king. He loved God and trusted him. Therefore God called him a "man after God's heart." David very much wanted to build a temple for God, but God told David that not David, but David's son, would build this temple. And God gave David a very important promise. God promised David that one of his descendants would always rule over Israel.

This does not mean that David never did anything wrong. In fact, he did some terrible things: He committed adultery and murder. But he repented of his sins, and God forgave him. But even though God forgave him, the effect of David's sins meant that that from that time onwards there was always quarreling and violence in his family, and several of his sons died. Some of David's sons tried to replace their father as king by force, and one time David had to flee from his own son!

When David became very old, he made his son Solomon king in his place.

Hundreds of years after David's death, the nation of Israel no longer existed. The Israelites had been disobedient to God and, in order to punish them, God sent people from another country to conquer them. The Israelites were defeated and from that time onwards, they were ruled by other nations. No longer was there a descendant of David ruling over Israel. But God never forgets a promise, and so the people were waiting for God to again give them a descendant of David as king. God fulfilled this promise through Jesus.

* **Associated Passages:** LUK 1:26–LUK 1:38; LUK 1:57–LUK 1:80; MRK 10:46–MRK 10:52; MRK 11:1–MRK 11:11; MRK 12:35–MRK 12:37
* **Associated Articles:** forgiveness (ID: `280051@FIAKeyTerms`); forgiveness (ID: `341047@FIAKeyTerms`); sin (ID: `280057@FIAKeyTerms`); temple (ID: `280063@FIAKeyTerms`); sin (ID: `341053@FIAKeyTerms`); temple (ID: `341062@FIAKeyTerms`); nation (ID: `280075@FIAKeyTerms`); prophet (ID: `280091@FIAKeyTerms`); adultery (ID: `280101@FIAKeyTerms`); Jerusalem (ID: `280103@FIAKeyTerms`); nation (ID: `341075@FIAKeyTerms`); prophet (ID: `341093@FIAKeyTerms`); adultery (ID: `341104@FIAKeyTerms`); Jerusalem (ID: `341106@FIAKeyTerms`); Bethlehem (ID: `280127@FIAKeyTerms`); Israel (ID: `280207@FIAKeyTerms`); king (ID: `341020@FIAKeyTerms`); king (ID: `341119@FIAKeyTerms`); Bethlehem (ID: `341134@FIAKeyTerms`); Israel (ID: `341229@FIAKeyTerms`)

