# Key Terms (SRV)

## License Information

**Key Terms (SRV)** is based on and adapted from: _Familiarization, Internalization, Articulation (Fia) Terms_, [SRV Partners](https://srvpartners.org/home/), 2023, which is licensed under a [CC BY-SA 4.0 license](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/4.0/legalcode.en).

This markdown version is provided under the same license.



--------------------------------

## covenant (id: 280165)

When people make a **covenant**, they make a solemn promise to each other that they cannot break. When people make a covenant, they say that they want to have a good relationship with each other. Therefore, the people who make the covenant sometimes call each other brother, or father, or son. A covenant is for always.

When people make a covenant, they swear an oath. In the oath they say: "I will keep my promise. If I do not, God may punish me." They can perform a ritual that symbolizes the punishment that God will give them if they break their oath. For instance, when people made a covenant with each other, they might each kill an animal. This reminded them that if one of them broke the covenant, God would punish them. Often, eating a meal together was also part of the covenant ritual.

Individual people or whole families could make a covenant with each other. Countries or people groups could also make a covenant with each other. For instance they might promise that they would not fight with each other and that they would help the other group if that group had a problem. By making a covenant with each other, they were saying that they wanted to have a good relationship with each other. In this relationship, both parties were equal. They had a choice whether to make the covenant with each other or not, and they could agree together about what they wanted to promise to each other. In the Old Testament, the people of Israel sometimes made a covenant with people from another nation.

A king or a ruler could also make a covenant with another ruler or kingdom that was weaker than he was. The king could say to these other people: "I will protect you, but you will have to pay me," or "You have to work for me." These other people had to promise to do what the king wanted. If they broke the promise, the king would punish them. If they kept their promise, the king would do good things for them. In this type of covenant, the king did not make an oath. Only the people who had to do what the king wanted had to make an oath.

But sometimes it was the other way around, and only the king made an oath. This could happen if some people had done something very good for the king, and the king wanted to reward them. This usually meant that the king gave them some land. The king then swore an oath, saying that the people could have this piece of land forever.

God made several covenants with people. These types of covenants were quite like the two different types of covenant that a king could make with people.

God made a covenant with Abraham. God promised to give to Abraham a land and many descendants. God was the only one who made an oath here. God confirmed his oath through a ritual that involved the killing of animals. This symbolized the sincerity of God's oath. From that time onwards, Abraham and his descendants needed to be circumcised. Circumcision is the custom of cutting off the loose skin at the end of a man's penis. In Hebrew, the language of the Old Testament, when people make a covenant they say that they "*cut* a covenant." By making this cut in their body, Abraham's descendants would be reminded about the covenant that God had "cut" with them. If Abraham's descendants would stop circumcising their sons, they would break their part of the covenant.

Later, God confirmed this covenant with Abraham's descendants, the Israelites, several times. For instance, this happened on Mount Sinai after Moses led the Israelites out of slavery from Egypt. Abraham's descendants had become a large people group, just as God had promised. But they did not yet have their own land. On Mount Sinai, God gave the Israelites his commandments, which were his laws. The Israelites needed to obey these commandments. That was their part of the covenant agreement. God promised the Israelites that if they obeyed him and kept their part of the covenant, they would be God's special people. God would bless them and give them a land of their own, and many other good things. But if the Israelites disobeyed God, and broke the covenant, God would punish them and take away their land.

The Israelites promised to keep God's covenant and to obey him completely. To confirm this promise, they did a ritual. Moses killed several animals and sprinkled some of the blood of those animals on the altar\-the place where people brought sacrifices to God. And he sprinkled some of the blood over the people. He called this the "blood of the covenant." The blood on the altar symbolized God's oath, and the blood on the people symbolized the people's oath. The blood made the covenant a formal agreement that could not be broken.

However, the Israelites did not keep their promise. They kept breaking God's commandments, and God had to punish them.

In the New Testament, this Old Testament covenant with the Israelites is called "the first covenant." Jesus said that he was making a *new* covenant with the people. It was necessary for God to make a new covenant because the people are so sinful. Therefore they could never obey God completely, and could not keep their part of the covenant. Just before Jesus was going to die, Jesus talked about his own death. Jesus said that his blood was the blood of the new covenant. Just as the blood on the altar and on the people in the time of Moses made the first covenant formal, the death of Jesus makes the new covenant between God and people formal. The new covenant is a solemn promise from God to the people that they will be saved if they trust in Jesus.

**When you are translating covenant, be careful about the following things:**

Your culture may have a word or phrase for covenant that is similar to a covenant in the Bible. Some languages use picture language to describe people making a covenant. Do people do a certain activity when they are making a solemn promise to each other? If so, this might help you to decide on a term for covenant.

Some options to translate covenant could be:

* a solemn promise
* an unbreakable promise
* a binding agreement

*You can act out the different types of covenant that are mentioned earlier:*

* You could act out two people who are each other's equal.
* You could act out a king who makes a covenant with people who have to obey him.
* You could act out a king who makes a covenant with someone he wants to give something to.

How do these dramas help you to find the right words in your language?

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 8:20–GEN 9:17; GEN 26:1–GEN 26:33; GEN 31:36–GEN 31:55; GEN 6:9–GEN 6:22; LUK 1:57–LUK 1:80; MRK 14:12–MRK 14:26; ACT 7:1–ACT 7:8; GEN 15:1–GEN 15:21; GEN 17:1–GEN 17:27; GEN 21:22–GEN 21:34; EXO 24:1–EXO 24:8; EXO 34:29–EXO 34:35; EXO 2:16–EXO 2:25; EXO 23:20–EXO 23:33; MAT 26:26–MAT 26:35; EXO 34:18–EXO 34:28; EXO 34:10–EXO 34:17; EXO 19:1–EXO 19:15; EXO 5:22–EXO 6:13; LUK 22:7–LUK 22:23
* **Associated Articles:** sin (ID: `280057@FIAKeyTerms`); sin (ID: `341053@FIAKeyTerms`); oath (ID: `280096@FIAKeyTerms`); circumcision (ID: `280120@FIAKeyTerms`); oath (ID: `341099@FIAKeyTerms`); circumcision (ID: `341127@FIAKeyTerms`); kingdom (ID: `280130@FIAKeyTerms`); Israelite (ID: `280142@FIAKeyTerms`); bless (ID: `280199@FIAKeyTerms`); Abraham (ID: `280201@FIAKeyTerms`); kingdom (ID: `341137@FIAKeyTerms`); Israelite (ID: `341150@FIAKeyTerms`); bless (ID: `341219@FIAKeyTerms`); Abraham (ID: `341221@FIAKeyTerms`); Israel (ID: `280207@FIAKeyTerms`); altar (ID: `341008@FIAKeyTerms`); king (ID: `341020@FIAKeyTerms`); Hebrew (ID: `341034@FIAKeyTerms`); altar (ID: `341040@FIAKeyTerms`); king (ID: `341119@FIAKeyTerms`); Hebrew (ID: `341209@FIAKeyTerms`); Israel (ID: `341229@FIAKeyTerms`)

