# Familiarization, Internalization, Articulation (FIA) Key Terms

## License Information

**Familiarization, Internalization, Articulation (FIA) Key Terms** is based on and adapted from: _Familiarization, Internalization, Articulation (Fia) Terms_, [SRV Partners](https://srvpartners.org/home/), 2023, which is licensed under a [CC BY-SA 4.0 license](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/4.0/legalcode.en).

This markdown version is provided under the same license.



--------------------------------

## cross (id: 280183)

A **cross** is an upright piece of wood with another piece of wood\-called "a crossbeam"\-attached to it sideways near the top. The Roman people used this as a tool to torture and execute people they thought were the worst criminals. People called this "crucifixion." Crucifixion was the most painful and humiliating way to die. A person who was going to be crucified was first severely flogged, and then had to carry the crossbeam of the cross to the place of execution. The soldiers then laid the victim on top of the wooden cross, with his arms stretched wide. The soldiers then hammered large iron nails through the person's wrists, or hands, and then through the feet of the victim, so that he became fixed to the cross. Then they pulled the cross upright, and left the naked victim hanging until he died, in full view of other people. A cross was a symbol of deep shame and humiliation.

*You can look in the visual dictionary for pictures of a cross.*

* **Associated Passages:** MRK 8:31–MRK 9:1; MRK 15:1–MRK 15:15; MRK 15:16–MRK 15:32; MRK 15:40–MRK 15:47; LUK 9:18–LUK 9:27; MAT 16:21–MAT 16:28; LUK 14:25–LUK 14:35; MAT 10:34–MAT 10:42; ACT 5:27–ACT 5:42; JHN 19:17–JHN 19:30; JHN 19:31–JHN 19:42; ACT 13:23–ACT 13:41; LUK 23:26–LUK 23:43
* **Associated Articles:** crucifixion (ID: `280129@FIAKeyTerms`); crucifixion (ID: `341136@FIAKeyTerms`)

