# Familiarization, Internalization, Articulation (FIA) Key Terms

## License Information

**Familiarization, Internalization, Articulation (FIA) Key Terms** is based on and adapted from: _Familiarization, Internalization, Articulation (Fia) Terms_, [SRV Partners](https://srvpartners.org/home/), 2023, which is licensed under a [CC BY-SA 4.0 license](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/4.0/legalcode.en).

This markdown version is provided under the same license.



--------------------------------

## Christ (id: 280154)

The word **Christ** is the same as the word Messiah. Christ is the Greek word, and Messiah is the same word in Hebrew. Greek is the language of the New Testament, while Hebrew is the language of the Old Testament.

The word "Messiah" refers to the special king and Savior that God had promised to send.

A Messiah literally meant someone who was anointed. That meant that another person had poured oil over them. This was a sign that God had given this person a special task. For example, In the Old Testament, God told the prophet Samuel to pour oil over David. This was a sign that God chose David to become the next king of Israel.

Later, people called someone anointed if God had appointed that person for a special task, even if no one really had poured oil on their head.

David became the most beloved king of Israel. But after David, other people ruled over Israel, and many of them were not good kings. These kings led the people away from God, and therefore God had to punish the people. The country of Israel was destroyed, and came under the control of other nations. But still, God promised the people of Israel that he would send them a new king. This king would save the people from their trouble. This king would be a descendant of David.

The Israelites began to refer to this king that God promised to send as "the Messiah," which meant "the anointed one."

When Jesus came, he showed the people that *he* is the Messiah that God had promised to send. Jesus was a descendant of David. Jesus proved that God had appointed him through the extraordinary power and authority he had.

Jesus almost never directly said to the people "I am the Messiah!" This is because people did not yet really know what it would mean for Jesus to be the Messiah. They wrongly believed that the Messiah would restore the kingdom of Israel and give them back political power. Jesus instead called himself "the Son of Man," which was an indirect way of saying that he was the Messiah.

After Jesus rose up from the dead, his disciples knew with great certainty that he was the Messiah and they began to share this good news with other people. God had sent his Savior! But Jesus was not a Savior who just freed people from an earthly government. Jesus was a Savior who did much more\-Jesus freed people from sin and death.

**When you are translating the words "Messiah" or "Christ," be careful about the following things:**

* You only need one word for both Messiah and Christ.
* You could translate Messiah as "Savior," or "promised Savior," or "special king and Savior."
* Some translation teams like to use a word that sounds like "Messiah" or "Christ." If you do this, be sure that the word does not sound similar to a word in your language that has a very different meaning! Otherwise, people who do not know the Bible may get very confused.
* Maybe your culture has a symbol or ritual that people use to appoint someone for a special task. Maybe you can use this word for your translation of Messiah.

* **Associated Passages:** ACT 8:4–ACT 8:25; ACT 11:19–ACT 11:26; ACT 17:1–ACT 17:9; ACT 18:24–ACT 18:28; JHN 4:16–JHN 4:26; LUK 3:15–LUK 3:22; LUK 4:31–LUK 4:44; MAT 16:13–MAT 16:20; MRK 1:1–MRK 1:13; MRK 8:27–MRK 8:30; MRK 9:2–MRK 9:13; MRK 9:30–MRK 9:50; MRK 12:35–MRK 12:37; MRK 13:1–MRK 13:8; MRK 13:9–MRK 13:23; LUK 9:18–LUK 9:27; JHN 3:22–JHN 3:36; LUK 23:1–LUK 23:12; JHN 1:35–JHN 1:42; ACT 18:1–ACT 18:17; ACT 2:14–ACT 2:36; ACT 4:1–ACT 4:22; JHN 1:19–JHN 1:28; JHN 1:6–JHN 1:18; ACT 28:17–ACT 28:31; ACT 24:24–ACT 24:27; JHN 4:27–JHN 4:42; ACT 3:1–ACT 3:10; ACT 3:11–ACT 3:26; MAT 11:1–MAT 11:6; ACT 10:34–ACT 10:48; JHN 17:1–JHN 17:19; LUK 22:63–LUK 22:71; ACT 15:22–ACT 15:35
* **Associated Articles:** David (ID: `280046@FIAKeyTerms`); David (ID: `341041@FIAKeyTerms`); sin (ID: `280057@FIAKeyTerms`); nation (ID: `280075@FIAKeyTerms`); sin (ID: `341053@FIAKeyTerms`); nation (ID: `341075@FIAKeyTerms`); Savior (ID: `280092@FIAKeyTerms`); authority (ID: `280107@FIAKeyTerms`); Son of Man (ID: `280126@FIAKeyTerms`); Messiah (ID: `280155@FIAKeyTerms`); Savior (ID: `341094@FIAKeyTerms`); authority (ID: `341112@FIAKeyTerms`); Son of Man (ID: `341133@FIAKeyTerms`); Messiah (ID: `341168@FIAKeyTerms`); Israel (ID: `280207@FIAKeyTerms`); disciple (ID: `280210@FIAKeyTerms`); king (ID: `341020@FIAKeyTerms`); greeks (ID: `341026@FIAKeyTerms`); Hebrew (ID: `341034@FIAKeyTerms`); king (ID: `341119@FIAKeyTerms`); greeks (ID: `341159@FIAKeyTerms`); Hebrew (ID: `341209@FIAKeyTerms`); Israel (ID: `341229@FIAKeyTerms`); disciple (ID: `341232@FIAKeyTerms`)

