# Familiarization, Internalization, Articulation (FIA) Key Terms

## License Information

**Familiarization, Internalization, Articulation (FIA) Key Terms** is based on and adapted from: _Familiarization, Internalization, Articulation (Fia) Terms_, [SRV Partners](https://srvpartners.org/home/), 2023, which is licensed under a [CC BY-SA 4.0 license](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/4.0/legalcode.en).

This markdown version is provided under the same license.



--------------------------------

## blood (id: 341010)

Every human and animal lives because God puts his own life breath in it. In the Old Testament, blood symbolizes this life breath. A person cannot live without blood, and so when blood drains out of a body, it is as if God's life breath is leaving the body.

In the Old Testament, God told the people that they should not eat the blood of an animal. When they ate meat, they first had to completely drain the animal of blood. By draining the blood from the animal, it was as if the people gave the life breath of the animal back to God.

Because blood, as long as it is in our bodies, represented life, losing blood represented death. Anything which is dead symbolizes how bad sin has made God's good creation. Therefore, a dead body of a human or an animal was unclean, meaning unacceptable before God, and anyone who touched such a dead body would become unclean as well.

A person who was losing blood was for this reason also unclean. Even though the person was not dead, it was as if they\-symbolically\-were already a little bit dead. Therefore even a woman who was just menstruating, or a man who was discharging blood, was unclean until the bleeding was over. Anyone who touched such a person became unclean as well. In the Gospels we see a bleeding woman touching Jesus\-but instead of this making Jesus unclean, Jesus made the woman clean by healing her from her sickness!

Because blood is so important for a person's life, the word is often used as picture language for "life." So, someone who killed someone has "shed blood," even if no blood has flowed.

Even though losing blood was bad and made someone unclean, blood of animals that were sacrificed to God were used to make people or things clean. Blood was an important part of the sacrifices that the Israelites made to God. When the priests brought God a sacrifice, they collected the blood of the animal that they were sacrificing. Depending on the type of ritual, the priests would sprinkle the blood on the altar, or on some specific object, or on a person. This symbolized that these objects or people were now clean. They were now suitable for serving God.

Blood was also used to make a formal agreement, called a covenant. When God made his covenant with Abraham, Abraham had to kill some animals, and therefore he shed blood. Jesus says that his, Jesus', blood is the sign of the new covenant. This means that the death of Jesus made possible a new covenant between God and people. In the Old Testament, the blood of animals made people clean. But now the blood of Jesus makes the people who believe in him clean\-God forgives them and accepts them. In the Old Testament, people had to sacrifice animals again and again. But Jesus died once, and this was sufficient for all the generations of the people!

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 42:1–GEN 42:26; GEN 8:1–GEN 8:19; EXO 24:1–EXO 24:8; EXO 30:1–EXO 30:10; EXO 29:10–EXO 29:18; EXO 29:19–EXO 29:28; JHN 19:31–JHN 19:42
* **Associated Articles:** forgiveness (ID: `280051@FIAKeyTerms`); forgiveness (ID: `341047@FIAKeyTerms`); sin (ID: `280057@FIAKeyTerms`); belief (ID: `280064@FIAKeyTerms`); sin (ID: `341053@FIAKeyTerms`); belief (ID: `341064@FIAKeyTerms`); gospel (ID: `280132@FIAKeyTerms`); sacrifice (ID: `280139@FIAKeyTerms`); Israelite (ID: `280142@FIAKeyTerms`); covenant (ID: `280165@FIAKeyTerms`); gospel (ID: `341139@FIAKeyTerms`); sacrifice (ID: `341147@FIAKeyTerms`); Israelite (ID: `341150@FIAKeyTerms`); covenant (ID: `341181@FIAKeyTerms`); priest (ID: `280194@FIAKeyTerms`); clean/unclean (ID: `280195@FIAKeyTerms`); Abraham (ID: `280201@FIAKeyTerms`); altar (ID: `341008@FIAKeyTerms`); altar (ID: `341040@FIAKeyTerms`); priest (ID: `341214@FIAKeyTerms`); clean/unclean (ID: `341215@FIAKeyTerms`); Abraham (ID: `341221@FIAKeyTerms`)

