# Key Terms (SRV)

## License Information

**Key Terms (SRV)** is based on and adapted from: _Familiarization, Internalization, Articulation (Fia) Terms_, [SRV Partners](https://srvpartners.org/home/), 2023, which is licensed under a [CC BY-SA 4.0 license](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/4.0/legalcode.en).

This markdown version is provided under the same license.



--------------------------------

## Bethlehem (id: 280127)

Bethlehem is the birthplace of Jesus.

Bethlehem was a small village in Israel. The name Bethlehem means "house of bread." In the Old Testament, the events in the book of Ruth took place in Bethlehem. Ruth was a Moabite woman, so she was not an Israelite. Ruth's first husband had died, so Ruth came to live in Bethlehem with her Israelite mother\-in\-law. Later, Ruth married an Israelite man from Bethlehem. The great grandson of Ruth and her Israelite husband was David, who would later become the most beloved king of Israel.

Because king David was born in Bethlehem, Bethlehem is also called the city of David.

God later said through the prophet Micah that another very important ruler would be born in Bethlehem. Therefore the Jews were expecting that the Messiah, the special King and Savior that God had promised to send, would be born in Bethlehem.

God fulfilled this promise when Jesus was born in Bethlehem.

Bethlehem was a few kilometers away from Jerusalem, which was the most important city for the Jews.

* **Associated Passages:** LUK 2:1–LUK 2:21
* **Associated Articles:** David (ID: `280046@FIAKeyTerms`); David (ID: `341041@FIAKeyTerms`); prophet (ID: `280091@FIAKeyTerms`); Jerusalem (ID: `280103@FIAKeyTerms`); prophet (ID: `341093@FIAKeyTerms`); Jerusalem (ID: `341106@FIAKeyTerms`); Jew (ID: `280105@FIAKeyTerms`); Messiah (ID: `280155@FIAKeyTerms`); Israel (ID: `280207@FIAKeyTerms`); Jew (ID: `341109@FIAKeyTerms`); Messiah (ID: `341168@FIAKeyTerms`); Israel (ID: `341229@FIAKeyTerms`)

