# Key Terms (SRV)

## License Information

**Key Terms (SRV)** is based on and adapted from: _Familiarization, Internalization, Articulation (Fia) Terms_, [SRV Partners](https://srvpartners.org/home/), 2023, which is licensed under a [CC BY-SA 4.0 license](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/4.0/legalcode.en).

This markdown version is provided under the same license.



--------------------------------

## Canaan (id: 341016)

In the Old Testament, **Canaan** is an area that is roughly a strip of land between the Jordan River in the east, and the Mediterranean Sea in the west. This is an area that today includes part of the countries of Israel and Palestine, Lebanon, and Syria.

God had called Abraham and told him to go to the country that he would show him. This country was Canaan. God promised Abraham that the whole land of Canaan would belong to his descendants.

Many other people groups lived in this area at that time: Hittites, Amorites, Canaanites, and a few others. Sometimes all of them together are called Canaanites, and sometimes all of them together are called Amorites.

When Abraham's descendants, the Israelites, are freed from slavery in Egypt, God brings them back to Canaan. God gives them the task to drive out the Canaanites and to take over the land. God was going to give the land to the Israelites. God wanted to build a nation out of the Israelites through whom he would bless all the peoples of the earth. In order for the people to remain faithful to God, it was important that they would not be influenced by the Canaanite people. The Canaanite people worshiped many gods and did many things that God had specifically forbidden in his commandments. But the Israelites failed to drive out the Canaanites, and often sinned by following the customs and the gods of the Canaanites.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 11:27–GEN 11:32; GEN 12:1–GEN 12:9; EXO 23:20–EXO 23:33
* **Associated Articles:** worship (ID: `280052@FIAKeyTerms`); worship (ID: `341048@FIAKeyTerms`); sin (ID: `280057@FIAKeyTerms`); nation (ID: `280075@FIAKeyTerms`); sin (ID: `341053@FIAKeyTerms`); nation (ID: `341075@FIAKeyTerms`); Israelite (ID: `280142@FIAKeyTerms`); Jordan River (ID: `280170@FIAKeyTerms`); bless (ID: `280199@FIAKeyTerms`); Abraham (ID: `280201@FIAKeyTerms`); Israelite (ID: `341150@FIAKeyTerms`); Jordan River (ID: `341186@FIAKeyTerms`); bless (ID: `341219@FIAKeyTerms`); Abraham (ID: `341221@FIAKeyTerms`); Israel (ID: `280207@FIAKeyTerms`); Israel (ID: `341229@FIAKeyTerms`)

