# Key Terms (SRV)

## License Information

**Key Terms (SRV)** is based on and adapted from: _Familiarization, Internalization, Articulation (Fia) Terms_, [SRV Partners](https://srvpartners.org/home/), 2023, which is licensed under a [CC BY-SA 4.0 license](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/4.0/legalcode.en).

This markdown version is provided under the same license.



--------------------------------

## cornerstone (id: 280179)

A **cornerstone**, sometimes called a "head stone," is the most important stone in a building.

There are two different stones in a building that can be called a cornerstone.

A cornerstone can be a large stone placed at one of the corners at the bottom of a building. People put this stone down first. Then, when they build the rest of the house, they build it in relation to this stone. They know where to build the other walls because they can look at this first stone and make the other walls connect with this stone. Because this stone is large, it joins two different walls and carries a large part of the weight of the house. In this case, the cornerstone is the most important stone because it makes the house strong.

A cornerstone can also mean a stone that is placed at the top of a building. This stone joins two arches to form a doorway, or to support the roof. In this case, the cornerstone is the most important stone because it completes the house and joins it together.

*You can look in the visual Bible dictionary for pictures of a cornerstone.*

* **Associated Passages:** MRK 12:1–MRK 12:12; MAT 21:33–MAT 21:46

