# Key Terms (SRV)

## License Information

**Key Terms (SRV)** is based on and adapted from: _Familiarization, Internalization, Articulation (Fia) Terms_, [SRV Partners](https://srvpartners.org/home/), 2023, which is licensed under a [CC BY-SA 4.0 license](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/4.0/legalcode.en).

This markdown version is provided under the same license.



--------------------------------

## apostle (id: 280181)

In the Gospels, Jesus chooses 12 disciples. But even in the Gospels these disciples are sometimes called **apostles**. In the book of Acts, these same people, along with some others, are now called apostles. What is the difference?

A *disciple* means someone who is committed to follow Jesus. This doesn't mean that only the 12 disciples were disciples. Disciples are all people who follow Jesus and who are learning from him.

An *apostle* is someone who has received a special authority from Jesus. An apostle is appointed. An apostle is speaking on behalf of Jesus.

In the Gospels, the 12 disciples are sometimes called apostles, especially when Jesus is sending them out to do something. But in the book of Acts, the 12 disciples are always called apostles. This makes clear that now they have authority. Jesus has given them the task to continue the work that he started. They are not doing their own work; they are doing the work of Jesus.

This is the work that an apostle is supposed to do:

1. An apostle is a witness to other people that Jesus really had risen from the dead. The apostles had been with Jesus, they knew that he had really died, and they had seen him after he became alive again. So they are able to tell other people that this is really true.
2. An apostle preaches the gospel to all people and establishes churches.
3. An apostle has authority in the church. God had given the apostles the authority to make decisions about spiritual matters. They are the representatives of Jesus in the church. God had also given them power to do miracles. This was proof for other people that their authority really came from God.

* **Associated Passages:** ACT 8:4–ACT 8:25; ACT 9:19–ACT 9:31; ACT 11:1–ACT 11:18; ACT 12:1–ACT 12:5; ACT 14:8–ACT 14:20; LUK 6:12–LUK 6:16; LUK 17:1–LUK 17:10; MAT 10:1–MAT 10:15; MRK 3:13–MRK 3:19; MRK 6:30–MRK 6:44; ACT 4:32–ACT 4:37; ACT 14:1–ACT 14:7; ACT 16:1–ACT 16:5; ACT 6:1–ACT 6:7; ACT 4:1–ACT 4:22; ACT 5:1–ACT 5:11; ACT 5:12–ACT 5:16; LUK 24:1–LUK 24:12; ACT 2:37–ACT 2:41; ACT 5:17–ACT 5:26; ACT 2:41–ACT 2:47; ACT 5:27–ACT 5:42; ACT 1:15–ACT 1:26; ACT 1:1–ACT 1:5; LUK 9:1–LUK 9:17; ACT 7:54–ACT 8:3; ACT 15:22–ACT 15:35; LUK 11:33–LUK 11:54; LUK 22:7–LUK 22:23
* **Associated Articles:** miracles (ID: `280097@FIAKeyTerms`); miracles (ID: `341100@FIAKeyTerms`); gospel (ID: `280132@FIAKeyTerms`); disciple (ID: `280210@FIAKeyTerms`); gospel (ID: `341139@FIAKeyTerms`); disciple (ID: `341232@FIAKeyTerms`)

