# Key Terms (SRV)

## License Information

**Key Terms (SRV)** is based on and adapted from: _Familiarization, Internalization, Articulation (Fia) Terms_, [SRV Partners](https://srvpartners.org/home/), 2023, which is licensed under a [CC BY-SA 4.0 license](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/4.0/legalcode.en).

This markdown version is provided under the same license.



--------------------------------

## boat (id: 280211)

People build boats to travel across water. A boat can be very small and hold just a few people, or it can be large and hold hundreds of people. A boat can be open to the top, or it can have a roof over a part of the boat with one or several rooms inside.

People can move a boat forward by moving long sticks called oars through the water. This is called rowing. Larger boats would also have sails. A sail is a large piece of cloth that is attached to a long pole called a mast. The sail will catch the wind, and this moves the boat forward. Sailors are people who handle the boat and maneuver the sails so that the wind gives them the best speed. In the Old Testament, Jonah got on a sailboat like this when he was not willing to go to Nineveh.

Jesus and his disciples often traveled by boat across the Sea of Galilee. These were boats used by fishermen to go across the lake and to catch fish in the lake. These were rowing boats, though some boats may have had a small sail as well. These boats were just the right size to fit Jesus and his 12 disciples.

In the book of Acts, we read that Paul also traveled by boat sometimes. These boats were larger, and had sails. People traveled in these boats for longer distances. Sometimes storms made traveling by boat difficult, and a shipwreck could occur\-this means that the boat would break and would sink. People could die in shipwrecks. Traveling by boat could therefore be quite dangerous.

A boat has a small, movable, piece of wood attached to it which is called a rudder. This allows the people to make the boat go in the direction that they want. James in his epistle compares our tongue to a rudder of a boat\-very small, but very powerful!

*You can look in the video dictionary for some pictures of different types of boats.*

To help your teams understand the size of the boat that Jesus and his disciples used, try drawing in the dirt or with a piece of charcoal the shape of the boat on the ground. The boat is about eight big steps long, and three small steps wide. Now fit 13 people inside this space! Do you think that there would have been space for more people?

* **Associated Passages:** LUK 5:1–LUK 5:11; LUK 8:22–LUK 8:25; MAT 13:1–MAT 13:9; MRK 3:7–MRK 3:12; MRK 4:1–MRK 4:20; MRK 4:35–MRK 4:41; MRK 5:1–MRK 5:20; MRK 1:14–MRK 1:20; MRK 6:30–MRK 6:44; MRK 6:45–MRK 6:56; MRK 8:1–MRK 8:10; MRK 8:11–MRK 8:21; MAT 8:23–MAT 8:27; JHN 6:16–JHN 6:21; JHN 21:1–JHN 21:14; JHN 6:22–JHN 6:27; MAT 14:22–MAT 14:36
* **Associated Articles:** Sea of Galilee (ID: `280209@FIAKeyTerms`); Sea of Galilee (ID: `341231@FIAKeyTerms`); disciple (ID: `280210@FIAKeyTerms`); disciple (ID: `341232@FIAKeyTerms`)

