# Key Terms (SRV)

## License Information

**Key Terms (SRV)** is based on and adapted from: _Familiarization, Internalization, Articulation (Fia) Terms_, [SRV Partners](https://srvpartners.org/home/), 2023, which is licensed under a [CC BY-SA 4.0 license](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/4.0/legalcode.en).

This markdown version is provided under the same license.



--------------------------------

## fasting (id: 280093)

When someone is **fasting**, they are not eating or drinking anything for a certain amount of time.

There were certain times in the year when the Israelites were supposed to fast, but people could also fast at other times if they wanted. And sometimes people had no choice, and had to fast because there was no food.

Sometimes people were fasting because they were sad about something that had happened.

Sometimes people were fasting because they wanted to repent\-or ask forgiveness\-for their sins. Fasting was then a sign of humility.

Sometimes people were fasting because they needed God to help them, or they wanted God to tell them what to do. Fasting was then a way to show God how serious the problem was.

Sometimes people thought that if they fasted, God would be very pleased with them and give them what they wanted\-but they kept doing sinful things! But God told the people through his prophets that this was wrong. There is no point in fasting if you do not obey God as well.

In the time of Jesus, sometimes the people would fast in order to make other people think that they were very good and religious people. But Jesus told them that they should not fast to make themselves look good. They should not make a big show of their fasting in front of other people!

**When you are translating fasting, be careful about the following things:**

People in many cultures know the practice of fasting. When you translate the word fasting, be careful that the word in your language does not mean fasting in honor of a particular god, or is used for fasting in a particular religion only. Be also careful that the word is not only used for fasting for one particular reason. You may need to use a different word or phrase that explains the biblical practice of fasting.

* **Associated Passages:** ACT 12:25–ACT 13:3; LUK 5:27–LUK 5:39; LUK 2:22–LUK 2:40; MAT 6:9–MAT 6:18; MAT 4:1–MAT 4:11; MRK 9:14–MRK 9:29; MRK 2:18–MRK 2:22; MAT 9:14–MAT 9:17; ACT 14:21–ACT 14:28; ACT 27:9–ACT 27:26
* **Associated Articles:** forgiveness (ID: `280051@FIAKeyTerms`); forgiveness (ID: `341047@FIAKeyTerms`); sin (ID: `280057@FIAKeyTerms`); prophecy (ID: `280109@FIAKeyTerms`); sin (ID: `341053@FIAKeyTerms`); prophecy (ID: `341115@FIAKeyTerms`); Israelite (ID: `280142@FIAKeyTerms`); repentance (ID: `280176@FIAKeyTerms`); Israelite (ID: `341150@FIAKeyTerms`); repentance (ID: `341192@FIAKeyTerms`)

