# Key Terms (SRV)

## License Information

**Key Terms (SRV)** is based on and adapted from: _Familiarization, Internalization, Articulation (Fia) Terms_, [SRV Partners](https://srvpartners.org/home/), 2023, which is licensed under a [CC BY-SA 4.0 license](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/4.0/legalcode.en).

This markdown version is provided under the same license.



--------------------------------

## Elizabeth (id: 280215)

Elizabeth was the mother of John the baptizer. Elizabeth's husband was Zechariah. Zechariah was a priest and served God in the temple in Jerusalem. Elizabeth was unable to have children.

One time, when her husband Zechariah was in the temple, an angel appeared to Zechariah and told him that his wife Elizabeth would have a son. This son would be a servant of God like Elijah the prophet and would tell the people of Israel to repent in order to prepare the people to receive God. Zechariah could not believe that what the angel said was true, because Zechariah and his wife Elizabeth were already old. Because Zechariah did not believe the angel, the angel told Zechariah that he would be unable to speak until after the birth of the child.

Elizabeth indeed became pregnant. Elizabeth was a relative of Mary, who would become the mother of Jesus. Shortly after this, an angel appeared to Mary and told her that she would become pregnant even though she was a virgin. Her son would be a very important person, the son of God, and would rule as king forever. Mary then went to visit Elizabeth. When Mary came to Elizabeth, the baby in Elizabeth's womb jumped up in joy, because Mary would become the mother of the Messiah, the promised king and Savior.

* **Associated Passages:** LUK 1:26–LUK 1:38; LUK 1:39–LUK 1:56; LUK 1:57–LUK 1:80
* **Associated Articles:** John the Baptist (ID: `280048@FIAKeyTerms`); John the Baptist (ID: `341043@FIAKeyTerms`); temple (ID: `280063@FIAKeyTerms`); angel (ID: `280078@FIAKeyTerms`); temple (ID: `341062@FIAKeyTerms`); angel (ID: `341079@FIAKeyTerms`); prophet (ID: `280091@FIAKeyTerms`); Jerusalem (ID: `280103@FIAKeyTerms`); Elijah (ID: `280128@FIAKeyTerms`); Mary (ID: `280150@FIAKeyTerms`); prophet (ID: `341093@FIAKeyTerms`); Jerusalem (ID: `341106@FIAKeyTerms`); Elijah (ID: `341135@FIAKeyTerms`); Mary (ID: `341162@FIAKeyTerms`); Messiah (ID: `280155@FIAKeyTerms`); repentance (ID: `280176@FIAKeyTerms`); priest (ID: `280194@FIAKeyTerms`); Israel (ID: `280207@FIAKeyTerms`); Messiah (ID: `341168@FIAKeyTerms`); repentance (ID: `341192@FIAKeyTerms`); priest (ID: `341214@FIAKeyTerms`); Israel (ID: `341229@FIAKeyTerms`)

