# Key Terms (SRV)

## License Information

**Key Terms (SRV)** is based on and adapted from: _Familiarization, Internalization, Articulation (Fia) Terms_, [SRV Partners](https://srvpartners.org/home/), 2023, which is licensed under a [CC BY-SA 4.0 license](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/4.0/legalcode.en).

This markdown version is provided under the same license.



--------------------------------

## House of David (id: 280152)

The **house of David** refers not to a building, but to the people who belong to David. David was an important king in Israel's history.

Sometimes the house of David means all the people who belonged to David at the time that David was alive. At one time, David was fighting with another king, king Saul. The Bible says at that time that "there was war between the house of David and the house of Saul." This means that the soldiers of David were fighting with the soldiers of king Saul.

At other times, the house of David means David's descendants. When David wanted to build a temple\-a house\-for God, God told him: "I don't need you to build a house for me. Instead, I will build a house for you!" This meant that God would give David many descendants, and that always one of them would be a king like David.

God told the people of Israel through his messengers, the prophets, that the Messiah, the special king and Savior, would come from the house of David. This meant that the Messiah would be a descendant from David.

* **Associated Passages:** LUK 2:1–LUK 2:21
* **Associated Articles:** David (ID: `280046@FIAKeyTerms`); David (ID: `341041@FIAKeyTerms`); prophet (ID: `280091@FIAKeyTerms`); Savior (ID: `280092@FIAKeyTerms`); prophet (ID: `341093@FIAKeyTerms`); Savior (ID: `341094@FIAKeyTerms`); Messiah (ID: `280155@FIAKeyTerms`); Israel (ID: `280207@FIAKeyTerms`); king (ID: `341020@FIAKeyTerms`); king (ID: `341119@FIAKeyTerms`); Messiah (ID: `341168@FIAKeyTerms`); Israel (ID: `341229@FIAKeyTerms`)

