# Key Terms (SRV)

## License Information

**Key Terms (SRV)** is based on and adapted from: _Familiarization, Internalization, Articulation (Fia) Terms_, [SRV Partners](https://srvpartners.org/home/), 2023, which is licensed under a [CC BY-SA 4.0 license](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/4.0/legalcode.en).

This markdown version is provided under the same license.



--------------------------------

## forgiveness (id: 280051)

When you **forgive** someone who has done something bad to you, you stop being angry with that person. You no longer want to take revenge or to give punishment. The person who had done the wrong thing is then **forgiven**, or has received **forgiveness**.

Forgiveness is costly. For example, one brother, out of carelessness, breaks an expensive item that belongs to his sister. The sister can forgive the brother and not demand that he pays back the money. This is good news for the brother. The sister, however, now has the expense of replacing the broken item herself.

This is also how forgiveness works with God. People have sinned against God and deserve to be punished. People have to pay God back for the damage they have done. However, God wants to forgive people by saying that they do not have to pay him back\-because he knows that they cannot! God forgives people because he has mercy on them. This is good news for people. For God himself, this meant that God paid the price of the damage himself. God did this through the death of his son Jesus. When people trust in Jesus and believe that Jesus's death has paid God back for their own sins, then God forgives them. God is no longer angry with them.

The Bible often uses picture language to describe forgiveness. For instance, if you forgive someone you:

* wipe away their sins
* cut away their sins
* lift up their sins
* loose them, release them
* throw away their sins
* cover their sins
* pass by their sins
* take away their sins
* turn your back on their sins

**When you are translating "forgiveness," or "to forgive," be careful about the following things:**

You may have picture language in your own language for forgiving. Carefully think whether the meaning of the phrase in your language means the same as the meaning of "to forgive" in the Bible.

*Try having the translation team mime or act out a scene where someone forgives someone else. Watch what actions they do to show that they forgive. Ask them to explain the emotions of each of the characters in the scene.*

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 50:15–GEN 50:21; LUK 5:17–LUK 5:26; LUK 6:37–LUK 6:42; LUK 7:36–LUK 8:3; LUK 1:57–LUK 1:80; LUK 17:1–LUK 17:10; MAT 6:9–MAT 6:18; MAT 18:21–MAT 18:35; MRK 1:1–MRK 1:13; MRK 3:20–MRK 3:35; MRK 11:12–MRK 11:26; MRK 2:1–MRK 2:12; MAT 9:1–MAT 9:8; LUK 11:1–LUK 11:13; ACT 26:1–ACT 26:23; EXO 23:20–EXO 23:33; ACT 2:37–ACT 2:41; MAT 26:26–MAT 26:35; ACT 5:27–ACT 5:42; JHN 20:19–JHN 20:31; ACT 13:23–ACT 13:41; LUK 12:1–LUK 12:12; LUK 23:26–LUK 23:43; LUK 24:36–LUK 24:53; ACT 10:34–ACT 10:48; EXO 34:1–EXO 34:9
* **Associated Articles:** sin (ID: `280057@FIAKeyTerms`); sin (ID: `341053@FIAKeyTerms`); mercy (ID: `280117@FIAKeyTerms`); mercy (ID: `341123@FIAKeyTerms`)

