# Key Terms (SRV)

## License Information

**Key Terms (SRV)** is based on and adapted from: _Familiarization, Internalization, Articulation (Fia) Terms_, [SRV Partners](https://srvpartners.org/home/), 2023, which is licensed under a [CC BY-SA 4.0 license](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/4.0/legalcode.en).

This markdown version is provided under the same license.



--------------------------------

## evil spirit (id: 280180)

The phrases demon, **evil spirits**, or **unclean spirit** are referring to the same thing. A demon is a spirit that is rebelling against God. The leader of all demons is called Satan, the devil, or sometimes Beelzebul. Because God has created everything that exists, God also created these spirits. God created them good, as angels, to do his work. But some angels rebelled against God, and these became evil spirits. These evil spirits try to destroy and deceive people.

Demons can take control of people so that people become sick, or behave in a strange way. When a demon takes control of a person, we say that the person is demon possessed. A person who was possessed by a demon could become deaf, mute, or have fits that resemble epileptic attacks. The person could become very violent and shout. Jewish people tried to drive out demons from people through rituals that could last a long time. But Jesus drove out many demons from people during his time on earth, and he did this only by commanding the demons to leave!

Demons can also be called **evil spirits**. This makes clear that their intentions are evil. They sometimes are called unclean spirits. Something that is unclean is unfit for service to God.

**When you are translating demon, be careful about the following things:**

Demons are not the spirits of humans who have died, though in many cultures they may pretend that this is what they are. If you have to use a term that means spirits of dead people, then be aware that the people will have to learn over time that these spirits are not really spirits of dead people, but are only pretending to be so.

* **Associated Passages:** ACT 19:11–ACT 19:20; LUK 4:31–LUK 4:44; LUK 6:17–LUK 6:19; LUK 7:18–LUK 7:35; MRK 3:7–MRK 3:12; MRK 3:13–MRK 3:19; MRK 3:20–MRK 3:35; MRK 5:1–MRK 5:20; MRK 6:6–MRK 6:13; MRK 7:24–MRK 7:30; MRK 1:21–MRK 1:28; MRK 9:14–MRK 9:29; MRK 9:30–MRK 9:50; MRK 1:29–MRK 1:34; MRK 1:35–MRK 1:39; MRK 16:9–MRK 16:20; LUK 11:14–LUK 11:32; LUK 13:10–LUK 13:17; LUK 8:26–LUK 8:39; MAT 12:38–MAT 12:45; LUK 9:37–LUK 9:45
* **Associated Articles:** demon (ID: `280061@FIAKeyTerms`); demon (ID: `341058@FIAKeyTerms`); evil (ID: `280071@FIAKeyTerms`); possessed (ID: `280077@FIAKeyTerms`); evil (ID: `341071@FIAKeyTerms`); possessed (ID: `341077@FIAKeyTerms`); angel (ID: `280078@FIAKeyTerms`); Satan (ID: `280083@FIAKeyTerms`); devil (ID: `280099@FIAKeyTerms`); Jew (ID: `280105@FIAKeyTerms`); angel (ID: `341079@FIAKeyTerms`); Satan (ID: `341084@FIAKeyTerms`); devil (ID: `341102@FIAKeyTerms`); Jew (ID: `341109@FIAKeyTerms`); clean/unclean (ID: `280195@FIAKeyTerms`); clean/unclean (ID: `341215@FIAKeyTerms`)

