# Key Terms (SRV)

## License Information

**Key Terms (SRV)** is based on and adapted from: _Familiarization, Internalization, Articulation (Fia) Terms_, [SRV Partners](https://srvpartners.org/home/), 2023, which is licensed under a [CC BY-SA 4.0 license](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/4.0/legalcode.en).

This markdown version is provided under the same license.



--------------------------------

## Festival of Unleavened Bread (id: 280143)

Passover is an important Jewish festival that is also called the Festival, or Feast, of Unleavened Bread.

This feast reminded the people about a very important time in the history of Israel.

A very long time ago, Abraham's descendants, the Israelites, had become slaves in Egypt. The Israelites had lived in Egypt for four hundred years! God then called one of the Israelites, Moses, to lead the Israelites out of Egypt and back to Canaan, the land that God had promised to give to Abraham's descendants. The king of Egypt did not just allow this big group of slaves to walk out of his country. The king made things very difficult for the Israelites, but God sent nine plagues to the Egyptians in order to force the king to let the people go. During each plague, the king promised that the Israelites could go, but as soon as God stopped the plague, the king changed his mind again. And so, God caused the tenth and most terrible plague of all: God sent an angel to kill the eldest son in each house in Egypt. But God had told the Israelites to kill a lamb, which is an animal, a young sheep, and to smear the blood of this lamb on the doorposts of their houses. When the angel that God had sent saw the blood of the lamb on the door of a house, he would skip that house and not kill the oldest son in that family.

That same night, the Israelites had to eat the meat of this lamb in a special way. They had to eat the meat together with bitter herbs and with bread that they had prepared quickly\-different from the normal way that they prepared bread, that took a long time. They had to eat this meal while standing up, all dressed up ready to start traveling! Because during this night, they would be leaving Egypt.

That night, the angel from God killed all of the eldest sons in Egypt, except for the sons of the Israelites, because they had blood over their doors. That night, the king of Egypt finally let the Israelites go. The Israelites began their long travel towards the land that God had promised to give them! They were no longer slaves. From that time onwards, the Israelites would remember how God gave them freedom from Egypt by celebrating the Passover festival every year. The name Passover means "to skip over" or "to step over." This name reminded the Israelites of how the angel had skipped over the houses of the Israelites, and had not killed their oldest sons.

Every time that the Israelites celebrated Passover, they again killed a lamb and ate this meat together with bitter herbs and with bread that was prepared very quickly. The lamb reminded them of how God saved their oldest sons. The bitter herbs reminded them of the bitterness, the difficulty, that they had faced while they were slaves. And the bread that was prepared quickly reminded them that God freed them from Egypt and that they suddenly had to leave quickly.

God had told the Israelites that the yearly Passover feast should be combined with seven days of the Feast of Unleavened Bread. During these seven days they should eat the special bread that was prepared quickly. Normally, the Israelites made bread by letting the dough, a mixture of flour and water, rest for several hours, or overnight, before they baked the bread. The long wait caused some air bubbles to grow inside the dough, and this made the bread bigger and softer. Every time that they baked bread, they would keep some of the dough until next time. This piece of leftover dough was called a leaven, or yeast. The next time they would bake bread, they would take the leaven that they had kept from the previous time and add it to the new dough. This helped the new dough to also become bigger and softer.

When the Israelites were leaving Egypt on the first Passover night, they had no time to bake bread in this way. And God told them to make bread without leaven. Bread that is made without leaven is flat and thin; it is just flour and water that is kneaded and rolled flat, and then baked over a fire. This bread was called unleavened bread. Therefore, this feast is called the feast of unleavened bread. During the seven days of this feast, the Israelites could not keep even the smallest part of leaven in their house. Before the feast started, they had to throw away any leaven that they still had.

Because the Passover and the Feast of Unleavened Bread were celebrated together, the names for the feasts are often used interchangeably.

In the New Testament, leaven is sometimes used as a symbol for sin that we should get rid of in our lives.

* **Associated Passages:** ACT 12:1–ACT 12:5; ACT 20:1–ACT 20:6; MRK 14:1–MRK 14:11; MRK 14:12–MRK 14:26; EXO 23:10–EXO 23:19; LUK 22:1–LUK 22:6; MAT 26:1–MAT 26:16; MAT 26:17–MAT 26:25; EXO 34:18–EXO 34:28; ACT 7:54–ACT 8:3; EXO 12:14–EXO 12:28; LUK 22:7–LUK 22:23
* **Associated Articles:** sin (ID: `280057@FIAKeyTerms`); sin (ID: `341053@FIAKeyTerms`); angel (ID: `280078@FIAKeyTerms`); Jew (ID: `280105@FIAKeyTerms`); angel (ID: `341079@FIAKeyTerms`); Jew (ID: `341109@FIAKeyTerms`); Passover (ID: `280106@FIAKeyTerms`); Israelite (ID: `280142@FIAKeyTerms`); slave (ID: `280197@FIAKeyTerms`); Abraham (ID: `280201@FIAKeyTerms`); Passover (ID: `341110@FIAKeyTerms`); Israelite (ID: `341150@FIAKeyTerms`); slave (ID: `341217@FIAKeyTerms`); Abraham (ID: `341221@FIAKeyTerms`); Israel (ID: `280207@FIAKeyTerms`); blood (ID: `341010@FIAKeyTerms`); Canaan (ID: `341016@FIAKeyTerms`); king (ID: `341020@FIAKeyTerms`); blood (ID: `341057@FIAKeyTerms`); Canaan (ID: `341095@FIAKeyTerms`); king (ID: `341119@FIAKeyTerms`); Israel (ID: `341229@FIAKeyTerms`)

