# Key Terms (SRV)

## License Information

**Key Terms (SRV)** is based on and adapted from: _Familiarization, Internalization, Articulation (Fia) Terms_, [SRV Partners](https://srvpartners.org/home/), 2023, which is licensed under a [CC BY-SA 4.0 license](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/4.0/legalcode.en).

This markdown version is provided under the same license.



--------------------------------

## greeks (id: 341026)

People who belong to the country called Greece are **Greeks**. Greece is the country that is in the southern part of the area that we now call Europe. Several hundreds of years before the birth of Christ, Greece was the most powerful nation in the area, and the Greeks were ruling over a very large territory. This territory also included Israel.

The Greek culture had a lot of influence on other countries. Many people adopted Greek customs and began to speak the Greek language. Some people even worshiped Greek gods. During that time, even many Jews began to accept Greek gods. This led to a period of war in Israel where people who wanted to stay faithful to God were fighting against the Greek customs, and against the people who had accepted the Greek gods.

Over time, people who were following the Greek customs were called Greeks even when they did not come from the country of Greece.

During the time of the New Testament, the Greeks had lost their political powers and now the Romans were in power over the same part of the world. However, most people still spoke the Greek language. Many people in Israel spoke their own language called Aramaic, but they also spoke Greek. The authors of the books of the New Testament wrote in the Greek language.

In the New Testament, the term Greek can therefore refer to people who belonged to the country of Greece, or it can refer to people who had adopted the Greek culture and language. A good Jew would not adopt Greek culture, which involved idol worship, and therefore the word Greek began to be used in the meaning of "any person who is not a Jew." In that sense, sometimes the word "Greek" can mean the same as the word Gentile.

* **Associated Passages:** ACT 17:1–ACT 17:9; ACT 17:10–ACT 17:15; ACT 19:8–ACT 19:10; ACT 19:11–ACT 19:20; MRK 7:24–MRK 7:30; JHN 12:20–JHN 12:36; ACT 16:1–ACT 16:5; JHN 7:25–JHN 7:36
* **Associated Articles:** worship (ID: `280052@FIAKeyTerms`); worship (ID: `341048@FIAKeyTerms`); nation (ID: `280075@FIAKeyTerms`); Jew (ID: `280105@FIAKeyTerms`); nation (ID: `341075@FIAKeyTerms`); Jew (ID: `341109@FIAKeyTerms`); Gentile (ID: `280119@FIAKeyTerms`); Israel (ID: `280207@FIAKeyTerms`); idol (ID: `341024@FIAKeyTerms`); Gentile (ID: `341126@FIAKeyTerms`); idol (ID: `341152@FIAKeyTerms`); Israel (ID: `341229@FIAKeyTerms`)

