# Key Terms (SRV)

## License Information

**Key Terms (SRV)** is based on and adapted from: _Familiarization, Internalization, Articulation (Fia) Terms_, [SRV Partners](https://srvpartners.org/home/), 2023, which is licensed under a [CC BY-SA 4.0 license](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/4.0/legalcode.en).

This markdown version is provided under the same license.



--------------------------------

## Elijah (id: 280128)

**Elijah** was an important prophet who lived about 800 years before Jesus was born. A prophet is someone who gives messages from God to people.

Elijah lived during the time that Israel was ruled by kings who did not obey God, and these kings had led the people of Israel away from God. The people had begun to worship false gods, especially a god named Baal. People thought that this Baal was responsible for giving people rain. Therefore, Elijah told the king of Israel that it would no longer rain in Israel for as long as he said! And indeed, it did not rain for three years, and because of that a famine came over the whole land. After that, Elijah prayed and God sent rain again. This taught the people that *God* was the one who gave rain, not Baal!

Elijah performed several miracles during his life that are similar to miracles that Jesus would do many years later. Through Elijah, God provided a widow and her son miraculous food during the time of the famine. When the widow's son died, Elijah raised this child up from the dead.

At the end of his life, Elijah separated the water of the Jordan River with his cloak and walked across the water to the other side. This miracle resembled the miracles that Moses, as well as Joshua, had done hundreds of years before Elijah. There are more similarities between Elijah and Moses: For instance, both spoke with God on Mount Sinai. And in the New Testament Moses and Elijah appear together with Jesus on top of a mountain, a few weeks before Jesus's death.

Elijah did not die like other people do. God took Elijah up to heaven in a chariot, which is a small cart that is pulled by horses, with fire. Elijah's helper, who was named Elisha, became Elijah's successor.

In the book of the prophet Malachi, which was written hundreds of years after Elijah's life, God said to the people of Israel that before God would come back to judge the whole world, God would send the prophet Elijah. This means that God would send another prophet like Elijah. This new Elijah would make the people of Israel repent, so that they would be ready to receive God. Jesus later explains to his disciples that John the baptizer was the Elijah that Malachi talked about. This does not mean that John really was Elijah, but it means that John was someone like Elijah. John was doing the same task as the one that God had given to Elijah, to tell the people of Israel to repent.

* **Associated Passages:** MAT 27:45–MAT 27:56; MRK 8:27–MRK 8:30; MRK 9:2–MRK 9:13; MRK 15:33–MRK 15:39
* **Associated Articles:** John the Baptist (ID: `280048@FIAKeyTerms`); John the Baptist (ID: `341043@FIAKeyTerms`); miracles (ID: `280097@FIAKeyTerms`); prophecy (ID: `280109@FIAKeyTerms`); miracles (ID: `341100@FIAKeyTerms`); prophecy (ID: `341115@FIAKeyTerms`); Jordan River (ID: `280170@FIAKeyTerms`); repentance (ID: `280176@FIAKeyTerms`); Israel (ID: `280207@FIAKeyTerms`); king (ID: `341020@FIAKeyTerms`); king (ID: `341119@FIAKeyTerms`); Jordan River (ID: `341186@FIAKeyTerms`); repentance (ID: `341192@FIAKeyTerms`); Israel (ID: `341229@FIAKeyTerms`); God (ID: `341032@FIAKeyTerms`); God (ID: `341195@FIAKeyTerms`)

