# Familiarization, Internalization, Articulation (FIA) Key Terms

## License Information

**Familiarization, Internalization, Articulation (FIA) Key Terms** is based on and adapted from: _Familiarization, Internalization, Articulation (Fia) Terms_, [SRV Partners](https://srvpartners.org/home/), 2023, which is licensed under a [CC BY-SA 4.0 license](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/4.0/legalcode.en).

This markdown version is provided under the same license.



--------------------------------

## faith (id: 280102)

To believe and to have **faith** mean the same thing.

If you believe in someone, you believe that what that person says about himself is true. You then trust that person and are committed to do what that person tells you to do.

Abraham believed that God spoke the truth when he promised that Abraham would have many descendants, even though Abraham was already old and did not have even one child. Abraham trusted that God would fulfill his promise, even though it seemed impossible.

If you believe in God, you accept that God exists and that what God says in the Bible is true. You trust that God will fulfill all his promises, even when it seems impossible. As a result, you are committed to obey everything that God wants you to do.

When you believe in Jesus, you believe that Jesus is indeed the son of God. You trust that Jesus has indeed died for your sins, and that God has forgiven and accepted you. As a result, you are committed to do everything that Jesus has commanded.

The Bible sometimes says that people should believe in Jesus's *name*. This means the same thing as to believe in Jesus.

Someone who has great faith or belief, trusts God\-or Jesus\-very much.

**When you are translating "believe," be careful about the following things:**

In some languages, the word "believe" can sound as if someone only *hopes* that something is true, but they are not sure. This is not the right meaning. Therefore, sometimes it can be better to use a word that means "trust."

*Ask one person to volunteer to be the person who has to trust, or have faith. That person should stand with their back to a group of at least 5 people, if you have that many people. Those five people should stand right behind the volunteer. They should be capable and willing to catch the volunteer. Ask the volunteer to fall back into the arms of the group of people. Do you hesitate to do that? How do you feel as you decide whether or not to fall back into the arms of the group?*

Maybe the volunteer chooses to not actually fall back, even though you know that your friends will catch you. How does the group feel when the volunteer chooses to not fall back into their arms?

Maybe the volunteer chooses to fall back into the group's arms. How does the volunteer feel after the group catches him? How does the group feel, knowing that the person has trusted them? This is an example of having faith, or trusting. You do not trust unless you really fall back into the arms of the group. You may say that you trust them, but true trust does not happen until you fall. Trusting means to act on what you say. \[!end] Pause the recording here.

* **Associated Passages:** ACT 11:19–ACT 11:26; ACT 14:8–ACT 14:20; LUK 5:17–LUK 5:26; LUK 7:1–LUK 7:10; LUK 7:36–LUK 8:3; LUK 8:22–LUK 8:25; LUK 17:11–LUK 17:19; LUK 18:1–LUK 18:17; MAT 6:19–MAT 6:34; MAT 15:21–MAT 15:28; MAT 17:14–MAT 17:21; MAT 21:12–MAT 21:22; MAT 21:23–MAT 21:32; MAT 23:23–MAT 23:28; MRK 4:35–MRK 4:41; MRK 5:21–MRK 5:34; MRK 5:35–MRK 5:43; MRK 1:14–MRK 1:20; MRK 9:14–MRK 9:29; MRK 10:46–MRK 10:52; MRK 11:12–MRK 11:26; MRK 2:1–MRK 2:12; MAT 9:1–MAT 9:8; MAT 8:23–MAT 8:27; ACT 16:1–ACT 16:5; MAT 9:18–MAT 9:26; LUK 12:22–LUK 12:34; LUK 8:40–LUK 8:56; JHN 1:6–JHN 1:18; ACT 14:21–ACT 14:28; ACT 24:24–ACT 24:27; ACT 16:6–ACT 16:15; MAT 14:22–MAT 14:36; MAT 9:27–MAT 9:38; MAT 8:1–MAT 8:17; ACT 3:11–ACT 3:26; JHN 6:28–JHN 6:40; ACT 15:22–ACT 15:35; LUK 18:35–LUK 19:10; EXO 15:19–EXO 15:27
* **Associated Articles:** forgiveness (ID: `280051@FIAKeyTerms`); forgiveness (ID: `341047@FIAKeyTerms`); sin (ID: `280057@FIAKeyTerms`); belief (ID: `280064@FIAKeyTerms`); sin (ID: `341053@FIAKeyTerms`); belief (ID: `341064@FIAKeyTerms`); Abraham (ID: `280201@FIAKeyTerms`); Abraham (ID: `341221@FIAKeyTerms`)

