# Key Terms (SRV)

## License Information

**Key Terms (SRV)** is based on and adapted from: _Familiarization, Internalization, Articulation (Fia) Terms_, [SRV Partners](https://srvpartners.org/home/), 2023, which is licensed under a [CC BY-SA 4.0 license](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/4.0/legalcode.en).

This markdown version is provided under the same license.



--------------------------------

## high priest (id: 280074)

Priests were people who worked in the temple of God in Jerusalem. Priests were responsible for offering sacrifices to God on behalf of the people. They took care of the temple and taught the people how to worship God. The priests were in between God and the people, making it possible for people to come before God. Because people are sinful, they are unclean. In the Bible, to be unclean means to be unfit to come before God. People have to become clean first. The work of the priests was to make people clean\-to purify them. The priests did this by offering sacrifices on behalf of the people, and by teaching people how to live.

One of the priests was named the **high priest**. The high priest was the most important priest. The high priest had a very important function. Once a year there was a festival that was named the Day of Atonement. This means something like "the great day of forgiveness or reconciliation." On this day, the high priest offered a sacrifice on behalf of all the people of Israel to ask for forgiveness for all the sins that they had done in the previous year. The high priest first had to ask forgiveness for his own sin, and then for the sin of all the people. The high priest killed a lamb, and took the blood inside the temple. The furthest part of the temple was called the most holy place. The great day of forgiveness was the only time in a year that anyone was allowed to come to that place. The high priest used the blood of the lamb that he killed and spread this in the most holy place. The sins of the people had made God's holy temple unclean, and by spreading the blood, the temple became clean again. Because of the sacrifice of the lamb, it was again possible for God and people to have a relationship together.

Later in the New Testament, the writer of the book of Hebrews compares the work that Jesus did with the work of a high priest on the great day of forgiveness. Jesus made people clean\-just as a high priest made the people clean. Jesus made it possible for people and God to have a relationship again. But Jesus did not kill a lamb to do this: Jesus himself died. So Jesus was both the lamb, as well as the high priest! But Jesus did not need to ask forgiveness for his own sins first, because Jesus had never sinned. And instead of having to repeat this sacrifice year after year, Jesus did this once and for all, for all people who believe in him.

* **Associated Passages:** JHN 11:45–JHN 11:57
* **Associated Articles:** forgiveness (ID: `280051@FIAKeyTerms`); forgiveness (ID: `341047@FIAKeyTerms`); worship (ID: `280052@FIAKeyTerms`); sin (ID: `280057@FIAKeyTerms`); worship (ID: `341048@FIAKeyTerms`); sin (ID: `341053@FIAKeyTerms`); temple (ID: `280063@FIAKeyTerms`); Jerusalem (ID: `280103@FIAKeyTerms`); sacrifice (ID: `280139@FIAKeyTerms`); priest (ID: `280194@FIAKeyTerms`); temple (ID: `341062@FIAKeyTerms`); Jerusalem (ID: `341106@FIAKeyTerms`); sacrifice (ID: `341147@FIAKeyTerms`); priest (ID: `341214@FIAKeyTerms`); clean/unclean (ID: `280195@FIAKeyTerms`); purify (ID: `341039@FIAKeyTerms`); clean/unclean (ID: `341215@FIAKeyTerms`); purify (ID: `341244@FIAKeyTerms`)

