# Key Terms (SRV)

## License Information

**Key Terms (SRV)** is based on and adapted from: _Familiarization, Internalization, Articulation (Fia) Terms_, [SRV Partners](https://srvpartners.org/home/), 2023, which is licensed under a [CC BY-SA 4.0 license](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/4.0/legalcode.en).

This markdown version is provided under the same license.



--------------------------------

## gospel (id: 280132)

The word **gospel** is a translation of a Greek word that literally means "good news." The good news in the Bible is that God has made a way to save people. In the New Testament, it becomes clear that the way that God saves his people is through Jesus's death and resurrection. In Acts and in the epistles, when people are "preaching the gospel," they are telling the people the good news that they can be saved if they trust in Jesus.

In the part of the Bible that talks about Jesus's life\-the books of Matthew, Mark, Luke, and John\-we also sometimes hear about the gospel, or about the "good news of the kingdom." At that time, Jesus had not yet died to save the people. The good news here means that the kingdom of God is about to begin, or has already begun. Jesus told the people that God was ruling over all the earth, and that soon God would establish his kingdom forever. Until that time, people should already behave as citizens of this kingdom, and prepare themselves to receive God. The good news is that God is ruling, and that even now we can already be members of his kingdom! After Jesus died to save us, people who trust in Jesus can be part of God's kingdom.

In the church, we often use the term "the Gospels" to talk about the four books of the New Testament that tell us about the life of Jesus: the books Matthew, Mark, Luke, and John. When talking about just one of these books, we often say "the Gospel of Matthew," or "the Gospel of Mark." This means that when we say for example "the Gospel of Matthew," we mean the whole book of Matthew.

* **Associated Passages:** LUK 2:1–LUK 2:21; MAT 4:12–MAT 4:25; MAT 24:3–MAT 24:14; MRK 1:1–MRK 1:13; MRK 1:14–MRK 1:20; MRK 8:31–MRK 9:1; MRK 10:13–MRK 10:31; MRK 13:9–MRK 13:23; MRK 14:1–MRK 14:11; MRK 16:9–MRK 16:20; ACT 14:1–ACT 14:7; MAT 26:1–MAT 26:16; MAT 9:27–MAT 9:38; MAT 11:1–MAT 11:6; LUK 19:45–LUK 20:8
* **Associated Articles:** resurrection (ID: `280068@FIAKeyTerms`); resurrection (ID: `341068@FIAKeyTerms`); kingdom of God (ID: `280121@FIAKeyTerms`); good news (ID: `280158@FIAKeyTerms`); kingdom of God (ID: `341128@FIAKeyTerms`); good news (ID: `341171@FIAKeyTerms`); greeks (ID: `341026@FIAKeyTerms`); greeks (ID: `341159@FIAKeyTerms`)

