# Key Terms (SRV)

## License Information

**Key Terms (SRV)** is based on and adapted from: _Familiarization, Internalization, Articulation (Fia) Terms_, [SRV Partners](https://srvpartners.org/home/), 2023, which is licensed under a [CC BY-SA 4.0 license](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/4.0/legalcode.en).

This markdown version is provided under the same license.



--------------------------------

## hell (id: 280122)

The word **hell** is a name for a place where wicked people will be punished after they die.

What happens with people after they die? We may find this strange to hear, but the Bible does not very clearly talk about this. Most Christians say that people who believe in Jesus go to heaven, and people who don't believe go to hell. But the people who lived in the times of the Bible did not always have such a clear idea about this yet.

When people in the Old Testament spoke about what happened to people after they die, they said that people went into the **underworld**, or Sheol. They pictured the underworld as a place that is somewhere underneath our own world. Some passages in the Old Testament speak as if all people, good as well as bad, go to the underworld; other passages speak as if the underworld is a place of punishment for bad people only.

In the New Testament, people also speak about the "underworld." Some translations use the Greek word "Hades" for this. Just as in the time of the Old Testament, the "underworld" sometimes seems to be a neutral place, where all people go after they have died, and sometimes it seems to be a place where wicked people are punished. Sometimes it seems to be a place where all people are waiting until the time that God will judge all people. Sometimes the word "underworld" is just used as another way to speak about death.

Jesus told the people that after death people will either go into the kingdom of God, or they will go into hell. The word hell in the Greek language comes from the name of the place near Jerusalem where at one point in their history the people of Israel had committed a terrible crime. Because of this crime, people avoided this place and began to use it as a place to burn the bodies of dead animals and of people who could not be buried. People always kept a fire burning in this place. Whenever people thought about this place, they felt very bad, and they thought about God punishing people for their terrible crimes. For this reason, people began to use the name of this place as the name for the place where all wicked people will be punished after their death. Jesus makes clear that hell is a terrible place: He uses picture language to describe it as a place with a fire that never goes out, as a place where people will be tortured, or as a place where people will weep and forever regret their choices.

Jesus teaches that hell is also the place where Satan and his demons will be punished.

* **Associated Passages:** MAT 5:27–MAT 5:32; MAT 16:13–MAT 16:20; MAT 18:1–MAT 18:9; MRK 9:30–MRK 9:50; MAT 23:29–MAT 23:36; MAT 25:31–MAT 25:46; MAT 11:20–MAT 11:24; MAT 23:13–MAT 23:22; MAT 5:17–MAT 5:26; MAT 10:26–MAT 10:33; MAT 8:1–MAT 8:17; LUK 12:1–LUK 12:12
* **Associated Articles:** demon (ID: `280061@FIAKeyTerms`); demon (ID: `341058@FIAKeyTerms`); hades (ID: `280069@FIAKeyTerms`); Satan (ID: `280083@FIAKeyTerms`); hades (ID: `341069@FIAKeyTerms`); Satan (ID: `341084@FIAKeyTerms`); Jerusalem (ID: `280103@FIAKeyTerms`); kingdom of God (ID: `280121@FIAKeyTerms`); Sheol (ID: `280205@FIAKeyTerms`); Israel (ID: `280207@FIAKeyTerms`); Jerusalem (ID: `341106@FIAKeyTerms`); kingdom of God (ID: `341128@FIAKeyTerms`); Sheol (ID: `341226@FIAKeyTerms`); Israel (ID: `341229@FIAKeyTerms`); heaven (ID: `280214@FIAKeyTerms`); wickedness (ID: `341011@FIAKeyTerms`); greeks (ID: `341026@FIAKeyTerms`); wickedness (ID: `341060@FIAKeyTerms`); greeks (ID: `341159@FIAKeyTerms`); heaven (ID: `341236@FIAKeyTerms`)

