# Familiarization, Internalization, Articulation (FIA) Key Terms

## License Information

**Familiarization, Internalization, Articulation (FIA) Key Terms** is based on and adapted from: _Familiarization, Internalization, Articulation (Fia) Terms_, [SRV Partners](https://srvpartners.org/home/), 2023, which is licensed under a [CC BY-SA 4.0 license](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/4.0/legalcode.en).

This markdown version is provided under the same license.



--------------------------------

## evil (id: 280071)

**Evil** is the opposite of good.

A person who is evil willingly does bad things that hurt other people. When people stop obeying God they begin to do evil actions.

Because humans are so disobedient to God, the Bible teaches us that our hearts have become evil. Instead of wanting to do good things, we want to do bad things. Very many problems in the world like war, poverty, and injustice happen because of the evil inside people's hearts. Even sickness and death is ultimately a result of evil.

God hates evil. Only God can destroy evil, because God is all good. When God will establish his kingdom forever, he will destroy evil forever. Nothing that is evil will enter God's kingdom. Until that time, God still allows evil to happen. However, God is more powerful than all evil.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 8:20–GEN 9:17; GEN 2:4–GEN 2:25; GEN 38:1–GEN 38:30; GEN 44:1–GEN 44:13; MAT 6:9–MAT 6:18; MAT 7:1–MAT 7:12; MAT 24:45–MAT 24:51; MRK 7:14–MRK 7:23; MAT 12:33–MAT 12:37; JHN 7:1–JHN 7:10; EXO 23:1–EXO 23:9; JHN 3:9–JHN 3:21; LUK 13:22–LUK 13:30
* **Associated Articles:** kingdom (ID: `280130@FIAKeyTerms`); kingdom (ID: `341137@FIAKeyTerms`)

