# Key Terms (SRV)

## License Information

**Key Terms (SRV)** is based on and adapted from: _Familiarization, Internalization, Articulation (Fia) Terms_, [SRV Partners](https://srvpartners.org/home/), 2023, which is licensed under a [CC BY-SA 4.0 license](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/4.0/legalcode.en).

This markdown version is provided under the same license.



--------------------------------

## heir (id: 280136)

An **heir** is a person who inherits property or wealth after someone else dies. For the people who lived in the time of the Bible, when a father died, his property went to his son. We say that the son inherits his father's property; he is his father's heir. In the Old Testament, a father's property was divided among all his sons. The oldest son received double from what the other sons received, because after the death of his father he was now the head of the family and had extra responsibilities. If a father did not have sons, his property went to his daughters. If he did not have daughters either, his property went to his nearest relative.

God gave a promise to Abraham that God would bless Abraham's descendants. Abraham's descendants would be a blessing for all nations, and God would give them a land to live in. Abraham's heir was Isaac. After Abraham's death, Abraham's son Isaac inherited this promise. This means that what God had promised to Abraham was now also a promise for Isaac. And after Isaac's death, Isaac's son Jacob inherited this promise. And through Jacob, all the Israelites inherited this promise.

In the New Testament, we learn that all people who trust in Jesus are heirs to this same promise, even if they are not biological descendants from Abraham. This means that what God promised to Abraham, he will give to all people who trust in Jesus.

The New Testament also says that Jesus is the heir of all things. Jesus is the son of God. Now we know of course that God, the father, will never die, so this does not mean that Jesus will inherit these things after God dies. When the Bible says that Jesus is the heir, this means that everything rightfully belongs to Jesus. The whole world belongs to Jesus, and the kingdom of God belongs to Jesus.

The New Testament also calls the people who believe in Jesus "fellow heirs" with Jesus. Jesus is sharing his inheritance with all the people who trust in him as Savior!

* **Associated Passages:** MRK 12:1–MRK 12:12; MAT 21:33–MAT 21:46; LUK 20:9–LUK 20:19
* **Associated Articles:** nation (ID: `280075@FIAKeyTerms`); nation (ID: `341075@FIAKeyTerms`); kingdom of God (ID: `280121@FIAKeyTerms`); Israelite (ID: `280142@FIAKeyTerms`); kingdom of God (ID: `341128@FIAKeyTerms`); Israelite (ID: `341150@FIAKeyTerms`); Abraham (ID: `280201@FIAKeyTerms`); Abraham (ID: `341221@FIAKeyTerms`)

