# Familiarization, Internalization, Articulation (FIA) Key Terms

## License Information

**Familiarization, Internalization, Articulation (FIA) Key Terms** is based on and adapted from: _Familiarization, Internalization, Articulation (Fia) Terms_, [SRV Partners](https://srvpartners.org/home/), 2023, which is licensed under a [CC BY-SA 4.0 license](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/4.0/legalcode.en).

This markdown version is provided under the same license.



--------------------------------

## heart (id: 280173)

The **heart** is a muscle inside our body that keeps our blood flowing, but in the Bible the heart is used as picture language for the place where a person's thoughts, feelings, and decisions happen. Someone with a "wicked heart" thinks evil things and makes evil decisions. Someone with a "good heart" wants to do the right things, and feels sad when they have sinned. Someone with a "hard heart" does not want to listen to what God tells them to do. Someone whose heart is filled with joy is feeling very glad.

**When you are translating "heart," be careful about the following things:**

You should not translate the word "heart" with the word that is used in your language for the part of your body that pumps blood, *if* in your language this word is not associated with thoughts and feelings. Use a word that people in your language associate with a person's thoughts, feelings, and will.

In Hebrew, the language of the Old Testament, the word for "heart" is the same as the word for "mind." In Greek, the language of the New Testament, these are two different words. In Greek, the word "heart" has a bit more emphasis on feelings, while the word "mind" has more emphasis on the thoughts, the intellect, and the will of a person.

If your language has only one word for this, like in Hebrew, you can use this same word each time. If your language has two different words like in Greek\-or maybe even three or four\-you may need to use different words, depending on each passage.

Please note that you also need to have a word for "mind," "soul," and for "spirit." The words heart, mind, soul, and spirit all have to do with the inner, invisible part of a person, but each of them has a slightly different use. You may want to listen to the explanations of each of these terms, and then discuss all these four terms together. You can then make a decision about how you are going to translate each of these terms. But remember that in each passage you will have to think again if you have chosen the right translation.

In summary:

* **Heart**Heart is picture language for the place where a person's thoughts, feelings, and decisions happen.
* MindThe mind is very similar to heart, but a bit more emphasis on thoughts, intelligence, and the will.
* SoulSoul is the total invisible, inner part of a person. This part of a person may live on even after their body dies.
* SpiritThe spirit is very similar to soul, but with more emphasis on the relationship with God.

* **Associated Passages:** LUK 2:41–LUK 2:52; MRK 2:23–MRK 3:6; MRK 7:14–MRK 7:23; MRK 12:28–MRK 12:34; ACT 4:32–ACT 4:37; MAT 15:1–MAT 15:20; ACT 2:14–ACT 2:36; EXO 14:15–EXO 14:31; EXO 25:1–EXO 25:9; LUK 12:22–LUK 12:34; ACT 2:41–ACT 2:47; LUK 24:36–LUK 24:53; JHN 14:1–JHN 14:14
* **Associated Articles:** mind (ID: `280053@FIAKeyTerms`); mind (ID: `341049@FIAKeyTerms`); sin (ID: `280057@FIAKeyTerms`); evil (ID: `280071@FIAKeyTerms`); sin (ID: `341053@FIAKeyTerms`); evil (ID: `341071@FIAKeyTerms`); spirit (ID: `280113@FIAKeyTerms`); soul (ID: `280166@FIAKeyTerms`); greeks (ID: `341026@FIAKeyTerms`); Hebrew (ID: `341034@FIAKeyTerms`); greeks (ID: `341159@FIAKeyTerms`); soul (ID: `341182@FIAKeyTerms`); Hebrew (ID: `341209@FIAKeyTerms`)

