# Familiarization, Internalization, Articulation (FIA) Key Terms

## License Information

**Familiarization, Internalization, Articulation (FIA) Key Terms** is based on and adapted from: _Familiarization, Internalization, Articulation (Fia) Terms_, [SRV Partners](https://srvpartners.org/home/), 2023, which is licensed under a [CC BY-SA 4.0 license](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/4.0/legalcode.en).

This markdown version is provided under the same license.



--------------------------------

## grace (id: 280116)

When someone shows us grace, they do something good for us, or give us something good that we do not deserve.

God shows grace to people when he forgives them for their sins, and makes them his children. People deserve to be separated from God because of their disobedience, but God loves people so much that he wants to forgive them. Therefore, God does something good to the people that they do not deserve: He forgives them. This is grace.

Sometimes grace means something good that God has done for a particular person or something good that he has given to them. For instance, Paul says that God gave Paul *grace* to become an apostle. Paul did not deserve to become an apostle, but still God made him an apostle. God showed him grace.

* **Associated Passages:** ACT 11:19–ACT 11:26; ACT 20:18–ACT 20:38; LUK 2:22–LUK 2:40; ACT 4:32–ACT 4:37; ACT 15:36–ACT 15:41; ACT 14:1–ACT 14:7; ACT 6:8–ACT 6:15; EXO 33:12–EXO 33:23; JHN 1:6–JHN 1:18; ACT 14:21–ACT 14:28; ACT 13:42–ACT 13:52; EXO 34:1–EXO 34:9
* **Associated Articles:** forgiveness (ID: `280051@FIAKeyTerms`); forgiveness (ID: `341047@FIAKeyTerms`); sin (ID: `280057@FIAKeyTerms`); apostle (ID: `280181@FIAKeyTerms`); sin (ID: `341053@FIAKeyTerms`); apostle (ID: `341199@FIAKeyTerms`)

