# Key Terms (SRV)

## License Information

**Key Terms (SRV)** is based on and adapted from: _Familiarization, Internalization, Articulation (Fia) Terms_, [SRV Partners](https://srvpartners.org/home/), 2023, which is licensed under a [CC BY-SA 4.0 license](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/4.0/legalcode.en).

This markdown version is provided under the same license.



--------------------------------

## Galilee (id: 280088)

**Galilee** is the name of a region in northern Israel. Jesus grew up in Galilee and did much of his work of preaching in Galilee. Most of Jesus's disciples came from Galilee. Most parts of Galilee are hilly, with low mountains. To the east, or right, of Galilee is a large lake that is called the Sea of Galilee. Many people in Galilee made their living from fishing or selling fish. Some of Jesus's disciples were fishermen who lived in villages surrounding the Sea of Galilee. Other names for the Sea of Galilee are the **Sea of Gennesareth**, or the **Lake of Tiberius**.

In the time of Jesus, Israel was not an independent nation. The Israelites were ruled by the Roman people. The Romans had divided Israel into several regions, or provinces. During Jesus's life, Galilee was governed by a ruler named Antipas, who was appointed by the Roman government. Antipas was the son of king Herod, who tried to kill Jesus when he was a baby. Antipas was the brother of the Herod who ordered Jesus to be crucified.

Other provinces in Israel were Judea and Samaria. Galilee was in the north, Judea was in the south, and Samaria was in the middle. Judea was the place where the most important city, Jerusalem, was, and therefore the temple of God. The people in Judea often thought that they were better Jews than the people in Galilee. They looked down on the people in Galilee, and thought that people in Galilee were uneducated and rough. The people in Judea and as well, the people in Galilee, looked down on people in Samaria, whom they considered not to be Jews at all.

* **Associated Passages:** JHN 4:1–JHN 4:15; LUK 4:14–LUK 4:30; LUK 1:26–LUK 1:38; MAT 28:1–MAT 28:15; MAT 28:16–MAT 28:20; MAT 17:22–MAT 17:27; MAT 19:1–MAT 19:12; MRK 6:14–MRK 6:29; MRK 1:21–MRK 1:28; MRK 9:30–MRK 9:50; MRK 1:35–MRK 1:39; MRK 14:66–MRK 14:72; MRK 16:1–MRK 16:8; MAT 26:69–MAT 26:75; JHN 7:1–JHN 7:10; LUK 8:40–LUK 8:56; LUK 10:1–LUK 10:16
* **Associated Articles:** temple (ID: `280063@FIAKeyTerms`); temple (ID: `341062@FIAKeyTerms`); Jerusalem (ID: `280103@FIAKeyTerms`); Jew (ID: `280105@FIAKeyTerms`); Jerusalem (ID: `341106@FIAKeyTerms`); Jew (ID: `341109@FIAKeyTerms`); Israelite (ID: `280142@FIAKeyTerms`); Israel (ID: `280207@FIAKeyTerms`); Sea of Galilee (ID: `280209@FIAKeyTerms`); disciple (ID: `280210@FIAKeyTerms`); Israelite (ID: `341150@FIAKeyTerms`); Israel (ID: `341229@FIAKeyTerms`); Sea of Galilee (ID: `341231@FIAKeyTerms`); disciple (ID: `341232@FIAKeyTerms`); Judea (ID: `280221@FIAKeyTerms`); Judea (ID: `341245@FIAKeyTerms`)

