# Familiarization, Internalization, Articulation (FIA) Key Terms

## License Information

**Familiarization, Internalization, Articulation (FIA) Key Terms** is based on and adapted from: _Familiarization, Internalization, Articulation (Fia) Terms_, [SRV Partners](https://srvpartners.org/home/), 2023, which is licensed under a [CC BY-SA 4.0 license](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/4.0/legalcode.en).

This markdown version is provided under the same license.



--------------------------------

## eternal life (id: 280125)

**Eternal life** means a life with God that will never end. Eternal life is the gift that God gives to his children if they believe in him. It is not something that people can get if they work hard enough, or if they perform enough rituals. When a person puts his trust in Jesus, God gives this gift to them.

Eternal life is a much better and richer life than ordinary life. Without this gift of eternal life, we may live and breathe, but this is only physical life, and it will end as soon as we die. But the eternal life that God gives us will never end! It begins now, changing us and making it possible for us to live in a close relationship with God. When Jesus will come back and establish his kingdom forever, we will also live with him forever. That is the gift from God: life in the future, and real life already now!

* **Associated Passages:** JHN 4:1–JHN 4:15; LUK 18:18–LUK 18:30; MAT 19:13–MAT 19:30; MRK 10:13–MRK 10:31; LUK 10:25–LUK 10:37; JHN 12:20–JHN 12:36; JHN 3:22–JHN 3:36; JHN 6:22–JHN 6:27; JHN 6:60–JHN 6:71; JHN 10:22–JHN 10:42; JHN 3:9–JHN 3:21; JHN 5:31–JHN 5:47; JHN 5:24–JHN 5:30; JHN 6:41–JHN 6:51; JHN 12:37–JHN 12:50; JHN 6:52–JHN 6:59; JHN 17:1–JHN 17:19
* **Associated Articles:** belief (ID: `280064@FIAKeyTerms`); belief (ID: `341064@FIAKeyTerms`); kingdom (ID: `280130@FIAKeyTerms`); kingdom (ID: `341137@FIAKeyTerms`)

