# Key Terms (SRV)

## License Information

**Key Terms (SRV)** is based on and adapted from: _Familiarization, Internalization, Articulation (Fia) Terms_, [SRV Partners](https://srvpartners.org/home/), 2023, which is licensed under a [CC BY-SA 4.0 license](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/4.0/legalcode.en).

This markdown version is provided under the same license.



--------------------------------

## Hebron (id: 341012)

In the Old Testament, **Hebron** is the name of a city in Israel where several important stories took place.

Before the place became a city, it was a place where Abraham lived for some time. At that time, the place was called Mamre, but people also knew it as Kiriath\-arba. First Sarah, and later Abraham as well, died and were buried in this place. Their son Isaac, his wife Rebecca, and their son Jacob and his wife Leah were also buried there.

Much later, during the time when Joshua was leading the Israelites to conquer the land, the Israelites attacked Hebron and conquered it from the Canaanites who were living there.

Again much later, David became king over the people of Judah while living in Hebron. After several years, David moved to Jerusalem. From that time onwards, the city of Jerusalem became the most important city for the Israelites, and we don't hear much more about Hebron.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 23:1–GEN 23:20
* **Associated Articles:** David (ID: `280046@FIAKeyTerms`); David (ID: `341041@FIAKeyTerms`); Jerusalem (ID: `280103@FIAKeyTerms`); Israelite (ID: `280142@FIAKeyTerms`); Jerusalem (ID: `341106@FIAKeyTerms`); Israelite (ID: `341150@FIAKeyTerms`); Abraham (ID: `280201@FIAKeyTerms`); Israel (ID: `280207@FIAKeyTerms`); king (ID: `341020@FIAKeyTerms`); king (ID: `341119@FIAKeyTerms`); Abraham (ID: `341221@FIAKeyTerms`); Israel (ID: `341229@FIAKeyTerms`)

