# Familiarization, Internalization, Articulation (FIA) Key Terms

## License Information

**Familiarization, Internalization, Articulation (FIA) Key Terms** is based on and adapted from: _Familiarization, Internalization, Articulation (Fia) Terms_, [SRV Partners](https://srvpartners.org/home/), 2023, which is licensed under a [CC BY-SA 4.0 license](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/4.0/legalcode.en).

This markdown version is provided under the same license.



--------------------------------

## dove (id: 280084)

A **dove** is a type of bird that is very common in Israel. There are different types and sizes of doves. Some are white and others are speckled or have several colors. A dove is considered a gentle and peaceful bird. Doves can fly long distances, and they are very good at finding their way back to where they came from.

God required the Israelites to offer animal sacrifices to him during different rituals. Usually these animals were sheep, goats, or bulls. For poor people these animals were too expensive. Therefore, God allowed people to sacrifice a pair of doves instead.

When Jesus was baptized, the Holy Spirit came down on him looking like a dove. This does not mean that the Holy Spirit is a dove, only that at that time the Holy Spirit looked like a dove.

* **Associated Passages:** LUK 3:15–LUK 3:22; LUK 2:22–LUK 2:40; MRK 11:12–MRK 11:26
* **Associated Articles:** baptism (ID: `280134@FIAKeyTerms`); baptism (ID: `341142@FIAKeyTerms`); sacrifice (ID: `280139@FIAKeyTerms`); Israelite (ID: `280142@FIAKeyTerms`); sacrifice (ID: `341147@FIAKeyTerms`); Israelite (ID: `341150@FIAKeyTerms`); Israel (ID: `280207@FIAKeyTerms`); Holy Spirit (ID: `280222@FIAKeyTerms`); Israel (ID: `341229@FIAKeyTerms`); Holy Spirit (ID: `341246@FIAKeyTerms`)

