# Key Terms (SRV)

## License Information

**Key Terms (SRV)** is based on and adapted from: _Familiarization, Internalization, Articulation (Fia) Terms_, [SRV Partners](https://srvpartners.org/home/), 2023, which is licensed under a [CC BY-SA 4.0 license](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/4.0/legalcode.en).

This markdown version is provided under the same license.



--------------------------------

## purification offering or ceremony (id: 280076)

A purification ceremony is a ritual that makes a person clean, which means fit for service to God. The words **clean** and **unclean** in the Bible are not talking about whether something is clean or dirty from the outside. In the Bible, a *clean* person means a person who is fit for service to God, who is acceptable to participate in worship to God. A person who is *unclean* is unfit for service to God, and cannot participate in public worship. Animals and even objects can also be clean or unclean.

If a woman was unclean because she had been bleeding during her monthly cycle or had given birth to a child, or if anyone had had sexual relations, had touched a dead body, or had recovered from a skin disease, they were unclean. They needed to wait a certain amount of time and then take a special bath. In some cases they also had to offer an animal sacrifice to God. These activities together were called the purification ceremony. After this, these people were clean again and could participate in all worship activities.

* **Associated Passages:** ACT 21:15–ACT 21:26; LUK 2:22–LUK 2:40; ACT 24:10–ACT 24:23; EXO 29:29–EXO 29:37
* **Associated Articles:** worship (ID: `280052@FIAKeyTerms`); worship (ID: `341048@FIAKeyTerms`); sacrifice (ID: `280139@FIAKeyTerms`); clean/unclean (ID: `280195@FIAKeyTerms`); sacrifice (ID: `341147@FIAKeyTerms`); clean/unclean (ID: `341215@FIAKeyTerms`)

