# Familiarization, Internalization, Articulation (FIA) Key Terms

## License Information

**Familiarization, Internalization, Articulation (FIA) Key Terms** is based on and adapted from: _Familiarization, Internalization, Articulation (Fia) Terms_, [SRV Partners](https://srvpartners.org/home/), 2023, which is licensed under a [CC BY-SA 4.0 license](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/4.0/legalcode.en).

This markdown version is provided under the same license.



--------------------------------

## mind (id: 280053)

The **mind** refers to someone's thinking, understanding, and intelligence. In Hebrew, the language of the Old Testament, the word for "mind" is the same as the word for "heart." In Greek, the language of the New Testament, a mind is slightly different from the heart. In Greek, the word "heart" has a bit more emphasis on feelings, while the word "mind" has more emphasis on the thoughts, the intellect, and the will of a person.

**When you are translating "mind," be careful about the following things:**

Please note that you also need to have a word for "heart," "soul," and for "spirit." The words mind, heart, soul, and spirit, all have to do with the inner, invisible part of a person, but each of them has a slightly different use. You may want to listen to the explanations of each of these terms, and then discuss all these four terms together. You can then make a decision about how you are going to translate each of these terms. But remember that in each passage you will have to think again if you have chosen the right translation.

In summary:

* HeartHeart is picture language for the place where a person's thoughts, feelings, and decisions happen.
* **Mind**The mind is very similar to heart, but a bit more emphasis on thoughts, intelligence, and the will.
* SoulThe soul is the total invisible, inner part of a person. This part of a person may live on even after their body dies.
* SpiritThe spirit is very similar to soul, but with more emphasis on the relationship with God.

* **Associated Passages:** MRK 12:28–MRK 12:34; ACT 4:32–ACT 4:37
* **Associated Articles:** spirit (ID: `280113@FIAKeyTerms`); soul (ID: `280166@FIAKeyTerms`); heart (ID: `280173@FIAKeyTerms`); greeks (ID: `341026@FIAKeyTerms`); soul (ID: `341182@FIAKeyTerms`); heart (ID: `341189@FIAKeyTerms`); Hebrew (ID: `341034@FIAKeyTerms`); greeks (ID: `341159@FIAKeyTerms`); Hebrew (ID: `341209@FIAKeyTerms`)

