# Key Terms (SRV)

## License Information

**Key Terms (SRV)** is based on and adapted from: _Familiarization, Internalization, Articulation (Fia) Terms_, [SRV Partners](https://srvpartners.org/home/), 2023, which is licensed under a [CC BY-SA 4.0 license](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/4.0/legalcode.en).

This markdown version is provided under the same license.



--------------------------------

## magician (id: 341009)

A **magician** is a person who has power to perform miraculous activities. This power does not come from God, but from evil spirits. Magicians used complicated rituals to find out the meanings of dreams or of things that happened in nature. Magicians could also use their power to heal sickness, or to predict what was going to happen in the future. Some kings in the Bible used magicians to interpret their dreams.

God forbade his people to make use of magic because it comes from evil spirits. Throughout the Bible, God shows that God has more power than the magicians and their magic powers. Joseph, with God's power, was able to interpret dreams when the magicians could not. Moses performed miracles with God's power that the magicians could not copy. Even though a magician may seem to do good things, the end goal of magic is to hurt people. Eventually, in the book of Acts, the Ephesian believers burned their books that told them how to do magic.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 41:1–GEN 41:36; EXO 7:14–EXO 7:25; EXO 8:1–EXO 8:15; EXO 8:16–EXO 8:19; EXO 6:28–EXO 7:13
* **Associated Articles:** miracles (ID: `280097@FIAKeyTerms`); miracles (ID: `341100@FIAKeyTerms`); evil spirit (ID: `280180@FIAKeyTerms`); king (ID: `341020@FIAKeyTerms`); king (ID: `341119@FIAKeyTerms`); evil spirit (ID: `341198@FIAKeyTerms`); God (ID: `341032@FIAKeyTerms`); God (ID: `341195@FIAKeyTerms`)

