# Familiarization, Internalization, Articulation (FIA) Key Terms

## License Information

**Familiarization, Internalization, Articulation (FIA) Key Terms** is based on and adapted from: _Familiarization, Internalization, Articulation (Fia) Terms_, [SRV Partners](https://srvpartners.org/home/), 2023, which is licensed under a [CC BY-SA 4.0 license](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/4.0/legalcode.en).

This markdown version is provided under the same license.



--------------------------------

## Jew (id: 280105)

**Jews** refers to the people who are descendants of Abraham. In order to understand the word Jews, you first have to understand the word Israelites.

Israelites are descendants of Abraham. Abraham was a man who lived about 2000 years before the birth of Jesus. When Abraham was 75 years old, God spoke to him. God told him to leave behind his homeland, and to go to a place that God would show him. God said that he would bless Abraham, that he would make a great nation out of him, and that God would bless all the nations of the world through Abraham. Abraham obeyed God and God led him to the region that was at that time called Canaan. God promised Abraham that God would give this land to Abraham's descendants. Abraham and his wife did not have any children, but when Abraham and his wife were already very old, God gave them a son. This was the beginning of God fulfilling his promise to Abraham.

Abraham's son Isaac had two sons, one of them was named Jacob. God later gave Jacob the name Israel. From that time onwards, all Abraham's descendants are going to be called Israelites.

Because God has made a promise to Abraham, the Israelites were God's special people. Later, God made a covenant with them, which is a promise with a special agreement. The agreement was that the Israelites would obey all God's commandments, and God would bless them and make them a blessing for all the people on the earth.

The land where the Israelites lived was called Israel. The Israelites were ruled by kings. At first this went well, and the kingdom of Israel became large and prosperous. But very soon, there was conflict, and the nation of Israel split in two parts. The Northern part was still called Israel, and the Southern part was called Judah. The northern part, Israel, was defeated by a nation called the Assyrians about 700 years before the birth of Jesus. This happened because the people were continuously disobeying God, and breaking the covenant. God allowed the king of the Assyrians to send most of the people from Israel away to foreign countries. This was the end of the northern kingdom. We never hear anything more about what happened to these people.

The kingdom of Judah lasted a little bit longer, but after some years God also punished them for their disobedience. Another foreign nation, the Babylonians, came and destroyed the city of Jerusalem. Jerusalem was the most important city for the people of Judah because this was where the temple was where they worshiped God. The Babylonians took many of the people from Judah to Babylon as prisoners. The people from Judah were now called Jews, which just means "people from Judah."

Later, God allowed the Jews to go back to Judah, where they rebuilt the city of Jerusalem and the temple. But Judah would never become an independent nation again. In the time of the New Testament, another nation named the Roman Empire was ruling over the area that had been Israel. What had been the southern kingdom of Judah, was now called the Roman province of Judea. What had been the northern kingdom of Israel, was now almost the same as the Roman provinces of Samaria and Galilee. The word "Jews" began to refer to all remaining descendants of Abraham, no matter where they lived.

And so, the word "Israelites" and the word "Jews" both refer to descendants of Abraham. The word "Jews" occurs especially in the New Testament, and in the later parts of the Old Testament.

In general, when people use the word "Israelites," they may be thinking especially about the people who live in the country of Israel. And when they use the word "Jews," they may be thinking especially about the people who are devoted to the God of Abraham, and who want to keep the covenant that God has made with Abraham's descendants. So, the word "Jews" sometimes has a more religious meaning.

In the Gospels\-the four books in the New Testament that tell us about the life of Jesus\-almost all the people we meet are Jews: Jesus, his disciples, and most of the people who listen to him are all Jews. But in the book of John the word "Jew" is used in a special way. When the writer of the Gospel of John talks about Jews, he particularly means the *religious leaders* of the Jews. Usually this means people who are opposed to Jesus.

* **Associated Passages:** ACT 9:19–ACT 9:31; ACT 11:19–ACT 11:26; ACT 17:1–ACT 17:9; ACT 17:10–ACT 17:15; ACT 17:16–ACT 17:21; ACT 18:24–ACT 18:28; ACT 19:8–ACT 19:10; ACT 19:11–ACT 19:20; ACT 20:1–ACT 20:6; ACT 21:10–ACT 21:14; ACT 21:15–ACT 21:26; ACT 21:27–ACT 21:36; JHN 4:16–JHN 4:26; MRK 7:1–MRK 7:8; MRK 7:24–MRK 7:30; ACT 14:1–ACT 14:7; MAT 2:1–MAT 2:12; JHN 18:15–JHN 18:27; JHN 3:22–JHN 3:36; JHN 11:45–JHN 11:57; ACT 16:1–ACT 16:5; LUK 23:1–LUK 23:12; JHN 19:1–JHN 19:16; ACT 26:1–ACT 26:23; ACT 6:1–ACT 6:7; ACT 18:1–ACT 18:17; ACT 2:14–ACT 2:36; ACT 25:13–ACT 25:22; ACT 25:23–ACT 25:27; JHN 1:19–JHN 1:28; JHN 10:22–JHN 10:42; ACT 13:42–ACT 13:52; JHN 5:1–JHN 5:15; ACT 28:17–ACT 28:31; ACT 21:37–ACT 22:21; JHN 5:16–JHN 5:23; JHN 13:31–JHN 13:38; ACT 22:30–ACT 23:11; ACT 24:24–ACT 24:27; JHN 2:13–JHN 2:25; JHN 8:21–JHN 8:30; JHN 20:19–JHN 20:31; ACT 24:1–ACT 24:9; ACT 23:12–ACT 23:35; JHN 6:41–JHN 6:51; JHN 19:31–JHN 19:42; ACT 25:6–ACT 25:12; JHN 6:52–JHN 6:59; JHN 10:11–JHN 10:21; LUK 23:26–LUK 23:43; JHN 18:28–JHN 18:40; JHN 8:31–JHN 8:47; JHN 8:48–JHN 8:59; ACT 10:23–ACT 10:33
* **Associated Articles:** worship (ID: `280052@FIAKeyTerms`); worship (ID: `341048@FIAKeyTerms`); temple (ID: `280063@FIAKeyTerms`); nation (ID: `280075@FIAKeyTerms`); temple (ID: `341062@FIAKeyTerms`); nation (ID: `341075@FIAKeyTerms`); Galilee (ID: `280088@FIAKeyTerms`); Jerusalem (ID: `280103@FIAKeyTerms`); gospel (ID: `280132@FIAKeyTerms`); Israelite (ID: `280142@FIAKeyTerms`); Galilee (ID: `341089@FIAKeyTerms`); Jerusalem (ID: `341106@FIAKeyTerms`); gospel (ID: `341139@FIAKeyTerms`); Israelite (ID: `341150@FIAKeyTerms`); covenant (ID: `280165@FIAKeyTerms`); bless (ID: `280199@FIAKeyTerms`); Abraham (ID: `280201@FIAKeyTerms`); Israel (ID: `280207@FIAKeyTerms`); disciple (ID: `280210@FIAKeyTerms`); Judea (ID: `280221@FIAKeyTerms`); Canaan (ID: `341016@FIAKeyTerms`); king (ID: `341020@FIAKeyTerms`); Canaan (ID: `341095@FIAKeyTerms`); king (ID: `341119@FIAKeyTerms`); covenant (ID: `341181@FIAKeyTerms`); bless (ID: `341219@FIAKeyTerms`); Abraham (ID: `341221@FIAKeyTerms`); Israel (ID: `341229@FIAKeyTerms`); disciple (ID: `341232@FIAKeyTerms`); Judea (ID: `341245@FIAKeyTerms`)

