# Familiarization, Internalization, Articulation (FIA) Key Terms

## License Information

**Familiarization, Internalization, Articulation (FIA) Key Terms** is based on and adapted from: _Familiarization, Internalization, Articulation (Fia) Terms_, [SRV Partners](https://srvpartners.org/home/), 2023, which is licensed under a [CC BY-SA 4.0 license](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/4.0/legalcode.en).

This markdown version is provided under the same license.



--------------------------------

## Israelite (id: 280142)

**Israelites** are descendants of Abraham. Abraham was a man who lived about 2000 years before the birth of Jesus. When Abraham was 75 years old, God spoke to him. God told him to leave behind his homeland, and to go to a place that God would show him. God said that he would bless Abraham, that he would make a great nation out of him, and that God would bless all the nations of the world through Abraham. Abraham obeyed God and God led him to the region that was at that time called Canaan. God promised Abraham that God would give this land to Abraham's descendants. Abraham and his wife did not have any children, but when Abraham and his wife were already very old, God gave them a son, Isaac. This was the beginning of God fulfilling his promise to Abraham.

Abraham's son Isaac had a son named Jacob. God later gave Jacob the name Israel. From that time onwards, all Abraham's descendants are called Israelites. Jacob had 12 sons, and therefore the Israelites were divided into 12 tribes: Ruben, Simeon, Levi, Judah, Issachar, Zebulun, Dan, Naphtali, Gad, Asher, Joseph, and Benjamin. The tribe of Joseph was divided in two "half tribes": Ephraim and Manasseh.

Because God had made a promise to Abraham, the Israelites were God's special people. Later, God made a covenant with them, which is a promise with a special agreement. The agreement was that the Israelites would obey all God's commandments, and God would bless them and make them a blessing for all the people on the earth.

The land where the Israelites lived was called Israel. This land was divided among the different tribes of Israel. First, they were ruled by people called "judges." When the people asked God to give them a king, God appointed a king to rule over them. At first this went well, and under the rule of King David and his son Solomon the kingdom of Israel became large and prosperous. But when King Solomon died, there was conflict. Ten of the 12 tribes did not want to have the son of king Solomon as their king. They separated from the other two tribes and chose their own king.

From that time onwards, Israel was divided into parts. The northern part, with 10 tribes, was still called Israel. The southern part, with two tribes, was called Judah. It was called Judah because the tribe of Judah was the largest of the two tribes that together formed this southern kingdom.

Each part had their own king. The northern part, Israel, was defeated by a nation called the Assyrians about 700 years before the birth of Jesus. This happened because the people were continuously disobeying God and breaking the covenant. The king of the Assyrians sent most of the people from Israel away to foreign countries. This was the end of the northern kingdom. We never hear anything more about what happened to these people.

The kingdom of Judah lasted a little bit longer, but after some years God also punished them for their disobedience. Another foreign nation, the Babylonians, came and destroyed the city of Jerusalem, and the Babylonians took many of the people from Judah to Babylon as prisoners. The people from Judah were now called Jews, which means "people from Judah." Later, God allowed the Jews to go back to Judah, where they rebuilt the city of Jerusalem and the temple. But Judah would never become an independent kingdom again. In the time of the New Testament, another nation named Rome was ruling over the area that had been Israel. What had been the southern kingdom of Judah, was now called the Roman province of Judea. What had been the northern kingdom of Israel, was now roughly the Roman provinces of Samaria and Galilee. The word Jew had now begun to refer to all remaining descendants of Abraham, no matter where they lived.

* **Associated Passages:** EXO 17:1–EXO 17:7; EXO 17:8–EXO 17:16; EXO 34:29–EXO 34:35; EXO 31:1–EXO 31:11; EXO 25:1–EXO 25:9; EXO 35:1–EXO 35:19; EXO 12:43–EXO 12:51; EXO 3:11–EXO 3:22; EXO 35:30–EXO 36:7; EXO 5:22–EXO 6:13; EXO 1:8–EXO 1:14
* **Associated Articles:** David (ID: `280046@FIAKeyTerms`); David (ID: `341041@FIAKeyTerms`); nation (ID: `280075@FIAKeyTerms`); Jerusalem (ID: `280103@FIAKeyTerms`); nation (ID: `341075@FIAKeyTerms`); Jerusalem (ID: `341106@FIAKeyTerms`); Jew (ID: `280105@FIAKeyTerms`); kingdom (ID: `280130@FIAKeyTerms`); covenant (ID: `280165@FIAKeyTerms`); bless (ID: `280199@FIAKeyTerms`); Jew (ID: `341109@FIAKeyTerms`); kingdom (ID: `341137@FIAKeyTerms`); covenant (ID: `341181@FIAKeyTerms`); bless (ID: `341219@FIAKeyTerms`); Abraham (ID: `280201@FIAKeyTerms`); Israel (ID: `280207@FIAKeyTerms`); Judea (ID: `280221@FIAKeyTerms`); Canaan (ID: `341016@FIAKeyTerms`); king (ID: `341020@FIAKeyTerms`); Canaan (ID: `341095@FIAKeyTerms`); king (ID: `341119@FIAKeyTerms`); Abraham (ID: `341221@FIAKeyTerms`); Israel (ID: `341229@FIAKeyTerms`); Judea (ID: `341245@FIAKeyTerms`)

