# Familiarization, Internalization, Articulation (FIA) Key Terms

## License Information

**Familiarization, Internalization, Articulation (FIA) Key Terms** is based on and adapted from: _Familiarization, Internalization, Articulation (Fia) Terms_, [SRV Partners](https://srvpartners.org/home/), 2023, which is licensed under a [CC BY-SA 4.0 license](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/4.0/legalcode.en).

This markdown version is provided under the same license.



--------------------------------

## leprosy (id: 280202)

**Leprosy** is a skin disease. In today's time, there is a sickness named leprosy where people get wounds on their skin that become infected, and people may lose fingers, toes, or even bigger body parts. A **leper** is someone who suffers from leprosy.

Even though many Bible translations use the word leprosy or leper, this sickness probably did not exist in Israel in the time of the Bible. Instead, the word that is used in the Bible probably means another type of skin disease, or maybe several skin diseases. We do not know exactly.

Whatever this skin disease was, it was a very bad thing to have this, because a person with this disease was "unclean"\-this means that this person was considered not fit to worship God. An unclean person could not participate in activities within the community. They had to live outside the community, away from other people. They wore the kind of clothes that people in that time wore when they were grieving because of someone's death. If other people would come near them, they had to shout: "Watch out, we are unclean!" so that no one would come close.

The disease itself was probably not contagious, but the sickness was a reminder to people how sin spreads. This sickness began with a small spot, which could then grow and cover the whole body. In the same way, sin can begin very small, but can spread quickly. For this reason, a person with this sickness was unfit to worship God, to remind people that sin makes us unfit to serve God.

The disease called leprosy in the Bible was a terrible disease to have and sometimes God gave people this disease as a punishment.

Whenever someone noticed a strange spot on their body, they had to go to the priest. Priests were people who worked in the temple of God. Priests were in charge of making sure people were ritually clean: The priests did the rituals that made people fit to worship God. And therefore, the priests had to decide if a person with a spot on their body was clean or not. God had given instructions in his law so that the priests would know when a spot was indeed this dreaded disease, or whether it was just an innocent rash. If the priest was not sure, then the person with the spot had to stay all alone outside the community for a week. If the spot had grown, then the priest declared that it was the skin disease. If the spot had improved, then the person had to take a bath, wash his clothes and then he could come back into the community. He was clean again.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 8:1–GEN 8:19; LUK 4:14–LUK 4:30; LUK 5:12–LUK 5:16; LUK 7:18–LUK 7:35; LUK 17:11–LUK 17:19; MRK 14:1–MRK 14:11; MRK 1:40–MRK 1:45; MAT 26:1–MAT 26:16; MAT 8:1–MAT 8:17; MAT 11:1–MAT 11:6
* **Associated Articles:** worship (ID: `280052@FIAKeyTerms`); worship (ID: `341048@FIAKeyTerms`); sin (ID: `280057@FIAKeyTerms`); temple (ID: `280063@FIAKeyTerms`); sin (ID: `341053@FIAKeyTerms`); temple (ID: `341062@FIAKeyTerms`); law (ID: `280072@FIAKeyTerms`); priest (ID: `280194@FIAKeyTerms`); clean/unclean (ID: `280195@FIAKeyTerms`); Israel (ID: `280207@FIAKeyTerms`); law (ID: `341072@FIAKeyTerms`); priest (ID: `341214@FIAKeyTerms`); clean/unclean (ID: `341215@FIAKeyTerms`); Israel (ID: `341229@FIAKeyTerms`)

