# Key Terms (SRV)

## License Information

**Key Terms (SRV)** is based on and adapted from: _Familiarization, Internalization, Articulation (Fia) Terms_, [SRV Partners](https://srvpartners.org/home/), 2023, which is licensed under a [CC BY-SA 4.0 license](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/4.0/legalcode.en).

This markdown version is provided under the same license.



--------------------------------

## prophet (id: 280091)

A **prophet** is a person who gives messages from God to the people. This message can be an instruction from God about something that needs to be done. It can be a message that tells about something that is going to happen in the future. But most of the time these messages were warnings to the people to stop disobeying God. Because people often did not like to hear these messages, being a prophet could be lonely and difficult. People sometimes mistreated prophets or even killed them.

Sometimes the messages gave the people hope and encouragement. Even when the prophets were telling the people that they had sinned, and deserved to be punished, they were also telling the people that God would have mercy on them and rescue them again. One important message that the prophets gave the people was that God would send a special king and Savior to help them. This special king and Savior is called the Messiah. A Messiah is someone who is appointed for a special task.

The message that a prophet gives is called a **prophecy**. The things that the prophets said about the Messiah, hundreds of years before Jesus was born, all came true in Jesus. For instance, there was a prophecy that the Messiah would be born in Bethlehem, and Jesus was born in Bethlehem. There was also a prophecy that "the servant of God" would suffer much, and would be rejected by the people. Jesus suffered and was rejected by the people. There are many more examples. Therefore, we say that Jesus fulfilled the prophecies of the Old Testament.

Prophets gave God's messages to the people in different ways. Sometimes a prophet would tell a parable, a story with special meaning, to the people. Sometimes the prophet performed some kind of drama to help people understand the message. For instance, God told the prophet Jeremiah to walk around for some time with a heavy wooden yoke on his neck\-something that was normally used to control animals that worked for people in the fields. Jeremiah used this yoke as a symbol to tell the people that the Babylonian people would soon have control over the Israelites. God told the prophet Hosea to marry a prostitute, and he told the prophet Ezekiel to lay down on his side for weeks on end without moving. These dramatic actions helped people to see how serious God was when he gave them these messages.

God gave his messages to the prophets through the power of the Holy Spirit. We do not know exactly how this worked. Sometimes, a prophet had a dream or a vision. Maybe sometimes God gave the prophet a special revelation\-the prophet then knew that something was true. Maybe God sometimes spoke audible words to a prophet. Either way, the prophet then gave this message or revelation from God to the people, probably by using his own words and creativity.

Often prophets wrote down these messages, or other people wrote down the words for them. Many books in the Old Testament are messages that God gave the people through the prophets. That is why the Jews often use the word "the prophets," or "the law and the prophets," to refer to the part of the Bible that we now call the Old Testament. "The law" refers to the part of the Old Testament that has to do with God's commandments: These are the first five books of the Old Testament.

Sometimes in the Old Testament we find other terms for prophet as well, like **man of God**, **servant of God**, or **seer**. A "seer" means someone who can see. A prophet is a seer because he can see, or understand, God more clearly than other people, and he knows things that other people cannot know. This happens because God gives the prophet this understanding.

There were also **false prophets**. A false prophet does not give a message that comes from God. A false prophet makes up his own message, and just says what people like to hear. This way, people will like the prophet and honor him. We can recognize a false prophet because the things that he says will not come true.

In the Old Testament we sometimes hear about groups of prophets. These prophets were a little bit different than the prophets we mentioned so far. These other types of prophets would follow a certain ritual, for instance listen to someone playing a musical instrument, and then they would get into a trance. This means that they were not quite awake, and also not quite asleep. In this state, God would sometimes give them some special revelation. When people wanted to know what to do, they would sometimes go to such a prophet, and then the prophet would try to get into this trance and hopefully get a message from God about what this person had to do. People who got into this kind of trance could also start praising and worshiping God.

In the New Testament, Paul teaches us that the Holy Spirit gives some people the ability to speak prophecies. Through the Holy Spirit, God can give these believers some special knowledge or insight that is for the good of the church. Paul calls this the gift of prophecy. Not every believer may have this gift, because the Holy Spirit gives different gifts to different people.

Just as in the time of the Old Testament, people can deceive others and give a false prophecy. Therefore, other believers have to listen carefully to the prophecy and check whether this indeed could be a message from God.

**When you are translating prophet, be careful about the following things:**

Be careful that people will not get confused with the word you have chosen for angel. An angel also gives messages from God to people, but an angel is a supernatural being while a prophet is a human person.

Make sure you do not use a word that in your language only means that someone is telling about what is going to happen in the future. Talking about the future is only a small part of what it means to be a prophet in the Bible.

Be careful not to use the same word that you have used for the word "preacher." A preacher teaches people something about God, but a preacher does not always speak the words of God directly in the way that a prophet does.

In some languages, a good translation for the word "prophet" can be: "A spokesman from God," "someone who gives messages from God to the people," or "someone who speaks on behalf of God."

* **Associated Passages:** ACT 8:26–ACT 8:40; ACT 11:27–ACT 11:30; ACT 12:25–ACT 13:3; ACT 13:13–ACT 13:22; ACT 21:1–ACT 21:9; ACT 21:10–ACT 21:14; JHN 4:16–JHN 4:26; LUK 4:14–LUK 4:30; LUK 6:20–LUK 6:26; LUK 7:11–LUK 7:17; LUK 7:18–LUK 7:35; LUK 7:36–LUK 8:3; LUK 1:57–LUK 1:80; LUK 16:16–LUK 16:18; LUK 16:19–LUK 16:31; LUK 18:31–LUK 18:34; LUK 2:22–LUK 2:40; MAT 7:1–MAT 7:12; MAT 7:13–MAT 7:29; MAT 1:18–MAT 1:25; MAT 13:10–MAT 13:17; MAT 13:54–MAT 13:58; MAT 14:1–MAT 14:12; MAT 16:13–MAT 16:20; MAT 5:1–MAT 5:12; MAT 23:37–MAT 24:2; MAT 24:3–MAT 24:14; MAT 24:15–MAT 24:28; MRK 1:1–MRK 1:13; MRK 6:1–MRK 6:6; MRK 6:14–MRK 6:29; MRK 8:27–MRK 8:30; MRK 11:27–MRK 11:33; MRK 13:9–MRK 13:23; MRK 14:53–MRK 14:65; GEN 20:1–GEN 20:18; MAT 23:29–MAT 23:36; MAT 2:13–MAT 2:23; MAT 12:15–MAT 12:21; MAT 2:1–MAT 2:12; JHN 6:1–JHN 6:15; LUK 9:18–LUK 9:27; MAT 21:1–MAT 21:11; MAT 21:33–MAT 21:46; MAT 11:7–MAT 11:19; MAT 26:47–MAT 26:56; ACT 26:1–ACT 26:23; LUK 24:13–LUK 24:35; ACT 2:14–ACT 2:36; JHN 1:19–JHN 1:28; ACT 26:24–ACT 26:32; ACT 28:17–ACT 28:31; MAT 22:34–MAT 22:46; JHN 7:37–JHN 7:44; MAT 12:38–MAT 12:45; JHN 4:43–JHN 4:54; MAT 10:34–MAT 10:42; JHN 7:45–JHN 7:53; JHN 1:43–JHN 1:51; JHN 6:41–JHN 6:51; MAT 5:17–MAT 5:26; ACT 24:10–ACT 24:23; JHN 12:37–JHN 12:50; ACT 13:23–ACT 13:41; JHN 9:13–JHN 9:23; ACT 3:11–ACT 3:26; LUK 9:1–LUK 9:17; LUK 13:31–LUK 13:35; LUK 24:36–LUK 24:53; ACT 7:44–ACT 7:53; ACT 10:34–ACT 10:48; LUK 22:63–LUK 22:71; EXO 6:28–EXO 7:13; ACT 15:22–ACT 15:35; JHN 8:48–JHN 8:59; ACT 7:35–ACT 7:43; EXO 15:19–EXO 15:27; LUK 11:33–LUK 11:54; LUK 10:17–LUK 10:24; LUK 13:22–LUK 13:30; LUK 19:45–LUK 20:8
* **Associated Articles:** parable (ID: `280047@FIAKeyTerms`); parable (ID: `341042@FIAKeyTerms`); sin (ID: `280057@FIAKeyTerms`); angel (ID: `280078@FIAKeyTerms`); sin (ID: `341053@FIAKeyTerms`); angel (ID: `341079@FIAKeyTerms`); Savior (ID: `280092@FIAKeyTerms`); Jew (ID: `280105@FIAKeyTerms`); mercy (ID: `280117@FIAKeyTerms`); Bethlehem (ID: `280127@FIAKeyTerms`); Savior (ID: `341094@FIAKeyTerms`); Jew (ID: `341109@FIAKeyTerms`); mercy (ID: `341123@FIAKeyTerms`); Bethlehem (ID: `341134@FIAKeyTerms`); Israelite (ID: `280142@FIAKeyTerms`); Messiah (ID: `280155@FIAKeyTerms`); Holy Spirit (ID: `280222@FIAKeyTerms`); yoke (ID: `341015@FIAKeyTerms`); king (ID: `341020@FIAKeyTerms`); yoke (ID: `341091@FIAKeyTerms`); king (ID: `341119@FIAKeyTerms`); Israelite (ID: `341150@FIAKeyTerms`); Messiah (ID: `341168@FIAKeyTerms`); Holy Spirit (ID: `341246@FIAKeyTerms`)

