# Familiarization, Internalization, Articulation (FIA) Key Terms

## License Information

**Familiarization, Internalization, Articulation (FIA) Key Terms** is based on and adapted from: _Familiarization, Internalization, Articulation (Fia) Terms_, [SRV Partners](https://srvpartners.org/home/), 2023, which is licensed under a [CC BY-SA 4.0 license](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/4.0/legalcode.en).

This markdown version is provided under the same license.



--------------------------------

## prophecy (id: 280109)

A prophet is a person who gives messages from God to the people. The message that a prophet gives is called a **prophecy**.

A prophecy can be an instruction from God about something that needs to be done. It can be a message that tells about something that is going to happen in the future. But most of the time these messages were warnings to the people to stop disobeying God.

The prophecies also gave the people hope and encouragement. One important message that the prophets gave the people was that God would send a special king and Savior to help them. This special king and Savior is called the Messiah. The things that the prophets said about the Messiah, hundreds of years before Jesus was born, all came true in Jesus. For instance, there was a prophecy that the Messiah would be born in Bethlehem; and Jesus was born in Bethlehem. There was also a prophecy that "the servant of God" would suffer much, and would be rejected by the people. Jesus suffered and was rejected by the people. There are many more examples. Therefore, we say that Jesus fulfilled the prophecies of the Old Testament.

In the New Testament, Paul teaches us that the Holy Spirit gives some people the ability to speak prophecies. Through the Holy Spirit, God can give these believers some special knowledge or insight that is for the good of the church. Paul calls this the gift of prophecy. Not every believer may have this gift, because the Holy Spirit gives different gifts to different people.

Just as in the time of the Old Testament, people can deceive others and give a false prophecy. Therefore, other believers have to listen carefully to the prophecy and check whether this indeed could be a message from God.

* **Associated Passages:** ACT 19:1–ACT 19:7; MAT 7:13–MAT 7:29; MAT 13:10–MAT 13:17; MAT 13:24–MAT 13:35; MAT 26:57–MAT 26:68; MAT 27:1–MAT 27:10; MRK 7:1–MRK 7:8; MAT 15:1–MAT 15:20; JHN 11:45–JHN 11:57; ACT 2:14–ACT 2:36
* **Associated Articles:** prophet (ID: `280091@FIAKeyTerms`); prophet (ID: `341093@FIAKeyTerms`); Savior (ID: `280092@FIAKeyTerms`); Bethlehem (ID: `280127@FIAKeyTerms`); Savior (ID: `341094@FIAKeyTerms`); Bethlehem (ID: `341134@FIAKeyTerms`); Messiah (ID: `280155@FIAKeyTerms`); Holy Spirit (ID: `280222@FIAKeyTerms`); king (ID: `341020@FIAKeyTerms`); king (ID: `341119@FIAKeyTerms`); Messiah (ID: `341168@FIAKeyTerms`); Holy Spirit (ID: `341246@FIAKeyTerms`)

