# Key Terms (SRV)

## License Information

**Key Terms (SRV)** is based on and adapted from: _Familiarization, Internalization, Articulation (Fia) Terms_, [SRV Partners](https://srvpartners.org/home/), 2023, which is licensed under a [CC BY-SA 4.0 license](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/4.0/legalcode.en).

This markdown version is provided under the same license.



--------------------------------

## paradise (id: 280149)

The word **paradise** first meant a beautiful garden, a place with lovely trees and flowers that people can enjoy. When people thought of a paradise garden, they thought of it as a place of happiness and joy. Therefore, later people began to use this word to describe the good place where people who are right with God will live with God after death.

In the first book of the Bible, God created the first humans: Adam and Eve. They first lived in a beautiful garden, like a paradise. In this garden was the tree of life, and the tree of knowledge of good and bad. God had forbidden Adam and Eve to eat from the tree of knowledge of good and bad. Adam and Eve disobeyed God, and because of that, they had to leave this garden. Because they had to leave this garden, they lost access to the tree of life as well.

In the last book of the Bible, Revelation, Jesus says that there is a tree of life in God's paradise. The people who will be faithful and obedient to Jesus can eat from this tree of life! This means that they can live forever in a good relationship with God.

* **Associated Passages:** LUK 23:26–LUK 23:43

