# Key Terms (SRV)

## License Information

**Key Terms (SRV)** is based on and adapted from: _Familiarization, Internalization, Articulation (Fia) Terms_, [SRV Partners](https://srvpartners.org/home/), 2023, which is licensed under a [CC BY-SA 4.0 license](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/4.0/legalcode.en).

This markdown version is provided under the same license.



--------------------------------

## John the Baptist (id: 280048)

**John the baptizer**, or **John the Baptist**, was the person who told the people to repent of their sins and to take a special bath called baptism as a sign of their repentance. John did this shortly before Jesus began his own work.

John's parents were Zechariah and Elizabeth. John's birth was quite special. His parents were already very old when he was born. John was their only child.

John's father, Zechariah, was a priest and served God in the temple in Jerusalem. One time, when Zechariah was in the temple, an angel appeared to Zechariah and told him that his wife Elizabeth would have a son. This son would be a servant of God like the prophet Elijah had been, and he would tell the people of Israel to repent, in order to prepare the people to receive God. Zechariah could not believe that what the angel said was true, because Zechariah and his wife Elizabeth were already so old. Because Zechariah did not believe the angel, the angel told Zechariah that he would be unable to speak until after the birth of the child.

And of course, it happened exactly as the angel had said. Elizabeth became pregnant, even though she was already so old. She gave birth to John.

When John grew up, he went to live in the wilderness, in a lonely place away from people, near the Jordan River. He ate only what was available in the wilderness\-honey and locusts. He wore very simple clothes made out of rough camel hair. By looking at his clothes, people were reminded of the prophet Elijah. And many people came to John to listen to what he had to say. John told the people that another person would come after him, who was much more important than John was. John was preparing the people to receive this person, by telling them to repent of their sins and to start obeying God. The person that John was talking about was Jesus.

John told the people to take a special bath named baptism. This was a ritual that showed the people that they really repented from their sins. Sometimes, people who were not Jews but still wanted to follow God, took baptism. But John told them that they *all* had to take baptism! Even though the people were Jews, and therefore God's special people, they still did many wrong things and needed to repent. They needed to tell God that they felt sorry for disobeying God, and that they wanted to change.

Without any fear, John the baptizer told the people openly what they did wrong. The religious teachers of the Jews did not like John. During this time, King Herod Antipas was ruling over Judea. This was a son of the King Herod who had tried to kill Jesus when he was a baby. Herod Antipas was living together with the wife of his brother, and John openly told him that this was wrong. This woman was angry with John because of this, and tried to kill him, but King Herod had respect for John and did not want to kill him. But the king did put John in prison, and one time during a party, the king's wife tricked king Herod, and he was forced to have John killed. The king's soldiers cut off John's head to kill him.

John the baptizer was a relative of Jesus. His mother Elizabeth was a cousin of Jesus's mother Mary.

* **Associated Passages:** ACT 18:24–ACT 18:28; JHN 4:1–JHN 4:15; LUK 1:57–LUK 1:80; MAT 16:13–MAT 16:20; MRK 8:27–MRK 8:30; JHN 10:22–JHN 10:42; MAT 11:1–MAT 11:6
* **Associated Articles:** sin (ID: `280057@FIAKeyTerms`); sin (ID: `341053@FIAKeyTerms`); temple (ID: `280063@FIAKeyTerms`); angel (ID: `280078@FIAKeyTerms`); temple (ID: `341062@FIAKeyTerms`); angel (ID: `341079@FIAKeyTerms`); Jerusalem (ID: `280103@FIAKeyTerms`); Jew (ID: `280105@FIAKeyTerms`); Elijah (ID: `280128@FIAKeyTerms`); baptism (ID: `280134@FIAKeyTerms`); Jerusalem (ID: `341106@FIAKeyTerms`); Jew (ID: `341109@FIAKeyTerms`); Elijah (ID: `341135@FIAKeyTerms`); baptism (ID: `341142@FIAKeyTerms`); wilderness (ID: `280144@FIAKeyTerms`); Jordan River (ID: `280170@FIAKeyTerms`); repentance (ID: `280176@FIAKeyTerms`); priest (ID: `280194@FIAKeyTerms`); Elizabeth (ID: `280215@FIAKeyTerms`); Judea (ID: `280221@FIAKeyTerms`); king (ID: `341020@FIAKeyTerms`); king (ID: `341119@FIAKeyTerms`); wilderness (ID: `341155@FIAKeyTerms`); Jordan River (ID: `341186@FIAKeyTerms`); repentance (ID: `341192@FIAKeyTerms`); priest (ID: `341214@FIAKeyTerms`); Elizabeth (ID: `341237@FIAKeyTerms`); Judea (ID: `341245@FIAKeyTerms`)

