# Familiarization, Internalization, Articulation (FIA) Key Terms

## License Information

**Familiarization, Internalization, Articulation (FIA) Key Terms** is based on and adapted from: _Familiarization, Internalization, Articulation (Fia) Terms_, [SRV Partners](https://srvpartners.org/home/), 2023, which is licensed under a [CC BY-SA 4.0 license](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/4.0/legalcode.en).

This markdown version is provided under the same license.



--------------------------------

## John (id: 280163)

**John** was one of the disciples of Jesus. He was the brother of James, another disciple, and their father's name was Zebedee. James and John were fishermen before Jesus called them to become his disciples. Together with Peter, another disciple, these three men were often with Jesus at special times, even when other disciples were not there.

At one time, Jesus called James and his brother John "sons of thunder." It could be that Jesus gave them this name because they had a temper, and got angry quickly. But we do not know for sure.

The disciple John is probably also the writer of the gospel of John, the epistles of John, and Revelation\-all books in the New Testament. He probably lived the longest of all the disciples of Jesus. When he was already quite old, the Roman authorities sent him as a prisoner to an island called Patmos, where God gave him the visions that we can hear about in the book Revelation.

* **Associated Passages:** MRK 10:32–MRK 10:45
* **Associated Articles:** James (ID: `280118@FIAKeyTerms`); James (ID: `341124@FIAKeyTerms`); gospel (ID: `280132@FIAKeyTerms`); disciple (ID: `280210@FIAKeyTerms`); gospel (ID: `341139@FIAKeyTerms`); disciple (ID: `341232@FIAKeyTerms`)

