# Key Terms (SRV)

## License Information

**Key Terms (SRV)** is based on and adapted from: _Familiarization, Internalization, Articulation (Fia) Terms_, [SRV Partners](https://srvpartners.org/home/), 2023, which is licensed under a [CC BY-SA 4.0 license](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/4.0/legalcode.en).

This markdown version is provided under the same license.



--------------------------------

## Levite (id: 341021)

Levites are people who belong to the tribe of Levi, one of the 12 tribes of Israel.

The first ancestor of the Israelites was Abraham. Abraham's grandson, Jacob, had 12 sons. The descendants of these 12 sons became the 12 tribes of Israel. One of Jacob's son's names was Levi, and his descendants became known as the Levites, or the tribe of Levi.

Moses, through whom God gave the people his law, was a Levite. And Moses's brother Aaron was also a Levite. Those Levites who were descendants of Aaron became priests. Priests were people who worked in the temple of God in Jerusalem. Before people built the temple, priests worked in the tabernacle\-which was a portable temple, a tent. The temple, and before that the tabernacle, was the place where the Israelite people worshiped God. Priests were responsible for offering sacrifices to God on behalf of the people. They took care of the temple and taught the people how to worship God. This was very important work. Other Levites who were not descendants of Aaron were also important, because they helped the priests in their duties. They also helped the priests take care of the tabernacle, and later, the temple.

The Bible often talks about "priests and Levites." The priests are mentioned separately because they were more important, even though priests themselves are also Levites.

* **Associated Passages:** LUK 10:25–LUK 10:37
* **Associated Articles:** worship (ID: `280052@FIAKeyTerms`); worship (ID: `341048@FIAKeyTerms`); temple (ID: `280063@FIAKeyTerms`); law (ID: `280072@FIAKeyTerms`); temple (ID: `341062@FIAKeyTerms`); law (ID: `341072@FIAKeyTerms`); Jerusalem (ID: `280103@FIAKeyTerms`); sacrifice (ID: `280139@FIAKeyTerms`); Israelite (ID: `280142@FIAKeyTerms`); priest (ID: `280194@FIAKeyTerms`); Jerusalem (ID: `341106@FIAKeyTerms`); sacrifice (ID: `341147@FIAKeyTerms`); Israelite (ID: `341150@FIAKeyTerms`); priest (ID: `341214@FIAKeyTerms`); Abraham (ID: `280201@FIAKeyTerms`); Israel (ID: `280207@FIAKeyTerms`); Abraham (ID: `341221@FIAKeyTerms`); Israel (ID: `341229@FIAKeyTerms`)

