# Familiarization, Internalization, Articulation (FIA) Key Terms

## License Information

**Familiarization, Internalization, Articulation (FIA) Key Terms** is based on and adapted from: _Familiarization, Internalization, Articulation (Fia) Terms_, [SRV Partners](https://srvpartners.org/home/), 2023, which is licensed under a [CC BY-SA 4.0 license](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/4.0/legalcode.en).

This markdown version is provided under the same license.



--------------------------------

## mercy (id: 280117)

The word **mercy** means goodness, kindness, or compassion.

If you see someone in need, and you have pity on that person and help him, then you are *showing* mercy to that person.

If someone owes you a debt but you have pity on the person and cancel the debt, then you are also *having* mercy on that person.

People can ask God to have mercy on them. That means they ask God to have pity on them and to help them, or to forgive them.

The Bible shows us that God is **merciful**. This means he is full of mercy\-he wants to show mercy to people. God wants to show mercy on people because he loves them so much.

The meaning of mercy can be similar to the meaning of the word grace. Grace means that we receive something that we do not deserve. Grace and mercy go together. It is because of God's *mercy* that he does not punish us, and then it is because of his *grace* that he also gives us good things: We can become his children and live with him forever.

God gives grace to people when he forgives them for their sins. People deserve to be separated from God forever because of their disobedience to God, but because God has mercy on the people, he saves them if they trust Jesus. God gives us grace because he is so merciful.

**When you are translating mercy, be careful about the following things:**

Sometimes translators need to use a different word each time, depending on the context. Sometimes "kindness" fits better, and sometimes "pity" fits better.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 43:1–GEN 43:34; LUK 6:27–LUK 6:36; LUK 1:39–LUK 1:56; LUK 1:57–LUK 1:80; LUK 16:19–LUK 16:31; LUK 18:1–LUK 18:17; MAT 18:21–MAT 18:35; MAT 20:29–MAT 20:34; MAT 23:23–MAT 23:28; MAT 5:1–MAT 5:12; MRK 5:1–MRK 5:20; MRK 9:14–MRK 9:29; MRK 10:46–MRK 10:52; GEN 19:1–GEN 19:29; EXO 25:10–EXO 25:22; EXO 37:1–EXO 37:9; LUK 10:25–LUK 10:37; MAT 12:1–MAT 12:14; MAT 9:9–MAT 9:13; EXO 33:12–EXO 33:23; MAT 9:27–MAT 9:38; LUK 18:35–LUK 19:10; EXO 34:1–EXO 34:9
* **Associated Articles:** forgiveness (ID: `280051@FIAKeyTerms`); forgiveness (ID: `341047@FIAKeyTerms`); sin (ID: `280057@FIAKeyTerms`); grace (ID: `280116@FIAKeyTerms`); sin (ID: `341053@FIAKeyTerms`); grace (ID: `341122@FIAKeyTerms`); compassion (ID: `280220@FIAKeyTerms`); compassion (ID: `341243@FIAKeyTerms`)

