# Familiarization, Internalization, Articulation (FIA) Key Terms

## License Information

**Familiarization, Internalization, Articulation (FIA) Key Terms** is based on and adapted from: _Familiarization, Internalization, Articulation (Fia) Terms_, [SRV Partners](https://srvpartners.org/home/), 2023, which is licensed under a [CC BY-SA 4.0 license](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/4.0/legalcode.en).

This markdown version is provided under the same license.



--------------------------------

## peace (id: 280162)

When people live in harmony with each other without fighting, they are living in **peace**. But when the Bible talks about peace, this means much more than just the absence of fighting. It means that there is a lot of good!

When people live in peace, they are completely well. They have a complete life, and are living in harmony with each other, with nature, and most importantly, with God! Someone who lives in peace is content.

A community that has peace means that all the people in the community are content, and are living in harmony with each other and with God.

Because people are so disobedient to God, they could not live in peace with God. They became enemies of God. As a result of that, the people faced many difficulties and trouble. But because of Jesus's sacrifice, God made it possible again for people to have peace with God. When Jesus will come back, God's kingdom will be established and there will be peace. There will be complete harmony between God and people, between people and people, and between people and nature. Until that time, God's people are able to endure suffering and difficulties, because they know that they have peace with God.

* **Associated Passages:** LUK 7:36–LUK 8:3; LUK 2:1–LUK 2:21; LUK 2:22–LUK 2:40; MAT 10:1–MAT 10:15; MAT 5:1–MAT 5:12; GEN 15:1–GEN 15:21; EXO 18:1–EXO 18:12; LUK 19:28–LUK 19:44; LUK 14:25–LUK 14:35; MAT 10:34–MAT 10:42; JHN 20:19–JHN 20:31; LUK 24:36–LUK 24:53; JHN 14:22–JHN 14:31; ACT 10:34–ACT 10:48; EXO 4:18–EXO 4:31; JHN 16:25–JHN 16:33; LUK 10:1–LUK 10:16
* **Associated Articles:** kingdom (ID: `280130@FIAKeyTerms`); kingdom (ID: `341137@FIAKeyTerms`)

