# Key Terms (SRV)

## License Information

**Key Terms (SRV)** is based on and adapted from: _Familiarization, Internalization, Articulation (Fia) Terms_, [SRV Partners](https://srvpartners.org/home/), 2023, which is licensed under a [CC BY-SA 4.0 license](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/4.0/legalcode.en).

This markdown version is provided under the same license.



--------------------------------

## persecution (id: 280079)

When people **persecute** you, they are treating you cruelly and unfairly. People can for example beat you, or exclude you from society, or speak lies about you and take you to court. Jesus told his followers that other people would persecute them because of Jesus. After Jesus went back to heaven, many of his followers indeed faced persecution. The Jewish religious leaders and the Roman government persecuted the believers in Jesus and even killed some believers. But the followers of Jesus did not stop sharing the good news about Jesus. They even thought it was an honor to suffer for Jesus.

The New Testament teaches us that we all have to expect persecution. But we should enjoy this patiently and with joy. We should not want to take revenge on the people who persecute us, but instead we should love them.

* **Associated Passages:** ACT 9:1–ACT 9:19; ACT 9:32–ACT 9:35; MAT 5:43–MAT 5:48; MAT 13:18–MAT 13:23; MAT 5:1–MAT 5:12; JHN 15:18–JHN 15:27; LUK 21:12–LUK 21:19; ACT 13:42–ACT 13:52; ACT 21:37–ACT 22:21; JHN 5:16–JHN 5:23; LUK 12:1–LUK 12:12; ACT 7:54–ACT 8:3; LUK 21:20–LUK 21:28
* **Associated Articles:** Jew (ID: `280105@FIAKeyTerms`); Jew (ID: `341109@FIAKeyTerms`); good news (ID: `280158@FIAKeyTerms`); heaven (ID: `280214@FIAKeyTerms`); good news (ID: `341171@FIAKeyTerms`); heaven (ID: `341236@FIAKeyTerms`)

