# Key Terms (SRV)

## License Information

**Key Terms (SRV)** is based on and adapted from: _Familiarization, Internalization, Articulation (Fia) Terms_, [SRV Partners](https://srvpartners.org/home/), 2023, which is licensed under a [CC BY-SA 4.0 license](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/4.0/legalcode.en).

This markdown version is provided under the same license.



--------------------------------

## redeem (id: 280160)

The Bible uses earthly words to talk about heavenly things. Earthly words and heavenly things do not fit together perfectly, but they give us a helpful picture of God and what God does.

The Bible has several helpful ways of talking about how God **redeems**, or frees, his people.

Slaves must serve their masters. People who have debts must pay their debts. When you are redeeming a person, you are freeing that person from debt or slavery. This could involve paying a person's debt. The person who is freed is redeemed. Usually people redeem relatives or others they know. Sometimes a kind person who has enough money might redeem a stranger they feel sorry for.

Another example of redemption is that of a poor family who must sell their land for some reason. God had made a rule that land in Israel should always stay within the family. If a family was so poor that they had to sell a part of their land, then a relative should buy it from them if possible. That way, the land stayed in the family. We say that the relative "redeemed" the land. Sometimes a relative did not or could not buy or redeem the land. However, God had made a rule that in every 50th year\-called the year of Jubilee\-all the land had to go back to the original owners! That way, God made sure that no one would ever become too poor.

The Bible uses the picture of buying someone free to describe what God has done for people. In the Old Testament, God freed the people of Israel from slavery in Egypt. God did not pay the Egyptians anything in order to free the Israelites; God freed the Israelites because God is powerful and mighty. God described what he did for Israel by saying that He redeemed the people of Israel.

In the New Testament, we learn that God has redeemed us, or freed us, from slavery to sin. The idea of redemption, or God redeeming us, shows us what God has done. However, we should remember that God did not pay anyone anything for us. God does not need to pay someone something; he is powerful and mighty enough to save us. But God offered his son in our place, like one offers payment, to make us free from slavery to sin and evil. It is like God paid a very costly price for this: his own life, the life of Jesus. Because of this costly price, people can be free. God has redeemed us. We have received redemption. Redemption is a wonderful word that helps us understand God and what He has done when God redeemed us, or made us free.

* **Associated Passages:** LUK 1:57–LUK 1:80; EXO 13:1–EXO 13:16; LUK 24:13–LUK 24:35; EXO 34:18–EXO 34:28; LUK 21:20–LUK 21:28
* **Associated Articles:** slave (ID: `280197@FIAKeyTerms`); slave (ID: `341217@FIAKeyTerms`)

