# Familiarization, Internalization, Articulation (FIA) Key Terms

## License Information

**Familiarization, Internalization, Articulation (FIA) Key Terms** is based on and adapted from: _Familiarization, Internalization, Articulation (Fia) Terms_, [SRV Partners](https://srvpartners.org/home/), 2023, which is licensed under a [CC BY-SA 4.0 license](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/4.0/legalcode.en).

This markdown version is provided under the same license.



--------------------------------

## tongues (id: 341028)

In the Bible, the word **tongue** is used as another word for language. So, people who speak a foreign tongue are people who speak a language that you don't understand.

But someone who speaks "a tongue" or who speaks "in tongues," can also mean a person who has a special gift from the Holy Spirit. When people speak in tongues like this, they normally do not themselves understand what they are saying. The Holy Spirit is making these people speak in a language that they do not know themselves. In this unknown language, the people are praising God or speaking some truth about God. Sometimes the people who listen to this are able to understand the words; sometimes because they happen to know the language, or sometimes because the Holy Spirit is giving them the explanation. For instance, when the Holy Spirit came on the new believers at the time of Pentecost, the people began to speak in tongues. The believers who were speaking these languages did not themselves understand these languages, but everybody in the crowd could understand what the believers were saying, even though the people in the crowd came from all over the world and spoke many different languages!

The gift of speaking in tongues is one of the gifts that the Holy Spirit can give to believers. Other gifts can for instance be having special knowledge, or wisdom, or the ability to perform miracles.

* **Associated Passages:** ACT 19:1–ACT 19:7; MRK 16:9–MRK 16:20; ACT 2:1–ACT 2:13
* **Associated Articles:** miracles (ID: `280097@FIAKeyTerms`); miracles (ID: `341100@FIAKeyTerms`); Holy Spirit (ID: `280222@FIAKeyTerms`); Holy Spirit (ID: `341246@FIAKeyTerms`)

