# Key Terms (SRV)

## License Information

**Key Terms (SRV)** is based on and adapted from: _Familiarization, Internalization, Articulation (Fia) Terms_, [SRV Partners](https://srvpartners.org/home/), 2023, which is licensed under a [CC BY-SA 4.0 license](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/4.0/legalcode.en).

This markdown version is provided under the same license.



--------------------------------

## purify (id: 341039)

To **purify** someone means to make someone clean or pure. The words "clean" and "unclean" in the Bible are not talking about whether something is clean or dirty from the outside. In the Bible, a clean person means a person who is fit for service to God\-someone who is acceptable to participate in worship to God. A person who is unclean is unfit for service to God. Someone can become unclean or impure when they sin against God, when they sexually sin, or when they unintentionally touch or eat unclean or impure things. Animals and even objects can also be clean or unclean.

Whenever a person had become unclean, they had to perform certain rituals to become clean again. God gave his people specific laws and rituals to make them clean again. These rituals often included taking a special bath. Sometimes people would just wash one part of their body, and sometimes they needed to go completely under the water. Then they would change their clothes. Sometimes people needed to offer a sacrifice as well. This process was a symbol that showed that people were removing anything that was dirty or unclean and that separated them from God. It was the task of a priest, a servant of God in the temple, to help people do the rituals that made them clean.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 35:1–GEN 35:15; EXO 30:11–EXO 30:16; JHN 11:45–JHN 11:57
* **Associated Articles:** worship (ID: `280052@FIAKeyTerms`); worship (ID: `341048@FIAKeyTerms`); sacrifice (ID: `280139@FIAKeyTerms`); priest (ID: `280194@FIAKeyTerms`); sacrifice (ID: `341147@FIAKeyTerms`); priest (ID: `341214@FIAKeyTerms`); clean/unclean (ID: `280195@FIAKeyTerms`); God (ID: `341032@FIAKeyTerms`); God (ID: `341195@FIAKeyTerms`); clean/unclean (ID: `341215@FIAKeyTerms`)

