# Key Terms (SRV)

## License Information

**Key Terms (SRV)** is based on and adapted from: _Familiarization, Internalization, Articulation (Fia) Terms_, [SRV Partners](https://srvpartners.org/home/), 2023, which is licensed under a [CC BY-SA 4.0 license](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/4.0/legalcode.en).

This markdown version is provided under the same license.



--------------------------------

## repentance (id: 280176)

When you **repent**, you feel sorry about the bad things that you have done and you want to change. It is as if you are turning around: You turn away from the bad things, and you start walking towards good things. You are now determined to obey God instead of disobeying God.

God tells the people that they have to repent of their sins. When people repent, God forgives them and does not punish them for the bad things they have done. But if people do not repent, God will punish them.

Sometimes the Bible even tells us that God repents. Of course, God cannot sin and does not need to repent of something bad he has done. When the Bible says that God repents, it means that God changes his mind about something.

**When you are translating to repent, or repentance, be careful about the following things:**

The word that you are choosing should not just mean that someone feels sorry for what they have done. It should be clear that the person who repents also wants to stop doing bad things and wants to start obeying God. Maybe you need a phrase instead of just one word.

Here is one way you could help explain repentance:

Draw or line out a path. One end of the path ends in a very dangerous place\-a fireplace, or a cliff, or anything that is dangerous. The other end of the path ends in a good place\-maybe a table with food, or a nice garden, or any object that helps people to see that this is a good place.

Then have some people walk on this path towards the dangerous place. Act out these people doing bad things on the way\-maybe like hitting each other, or stealing. Then have someone else come to them, and tell them that they should repent.

Act out that some of the people walking on the road realize the bad things that they have done, and they notice the dangerous place that they are walking towards. Act out that they are feeling really bad! Then act out that these people turn around, and begin to walk towards the good end of the road. They can act out doing good things now.

Maybe one of the people in your drama can *not* repent and end up in the fire or over the edge of the cliff.

* **Associated Passages:** ACT 11:1–ACT 11:18; ACT 17:22–ACT 17:34; ACT 19:1–ACT 19:7; ACT 20:18–ACT 20:38; LUK 5:27–LUK 5:39; LUK 16:19–LUK 16:31; LUK 17:1–LUK 17:10; LUK 3:1–LUK 3:14; MAT 4:12–MAT 4:25; MAT 21:23–MAT 21:32; MRK 1:1–MRK 1:13; MRK 1:14–MRK 1:20; MRK 6:6–MRK 6:13; MAT 11:20–MAT 11:24; ACT 26:1–ACT 26:23; ACT 2:37–ACT 2:41; MAT 3:1–MAT 3:17; MAT 12:38–MAT 12:45; ACT 5:27–ACT 5:42; ACT 13:23–ACT 13:41; ACT 3:11–ACT 3:26; LUK 13:1–LUK 13:9; LUK 15:1–LUK 15:10; LUK 24:36–LUK 24:53; LUK 10:1–LUK 10:16
* **Associated Articles:** forgiveness (ID: `280051@FIAKeyTerms`); forgiveness (ID: `341047@FIAKeyTerms`); sin (ID: `280057@FIAKeyTerms`); sin (ID: `341053@FIAKeyTerms`)

