# Key Terms (SRV)

## License Information

**Key Terms (SRV)** is based on and adapted from: _Familiarization, Internalization, Articulation (Fia) Terms_, [SRV Partners](https://srvpartners.org/home/), 2023, which is licensed under a [CC BY-SA 4.0 license](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/4.0/legalcode.en).

This markdown version is provided under the same license.



--------------------------------

## spirit (id: 280113)

God created people with a body, and we can touch and see each other's body. But God also created people with thoughts and feelings and desires. We cannot see this part of a person, but we know it is there. This invisible part of a person is in the Bible usually called a soul, but sometimes it is called a **spirit**.

When the Bible uses the word spirit, the focus is on the relationship that a person has with God. When we are praying, our spirit is talking with God. When someone who believes in Jesus dies, their spirit will continue to live with God.

Some people think that the spirit and the soul may be the same, and that these two different words are only giving a slightly different emphasis. Other people think that they are different, and that each person has as well a body, a soul, and a spirit.

**When you are translating spirit, be careful about the following things:**

Please note that you also need to have a word for "soul," "heart," and "mind." The words spirit, soul, heart, and mind all have to do with the inner, invisible part of a person, but each of them has a slightly different use. You may want to listen to the explanations of each of these terms, and then discuss all these four terms together. You can then make a decision about how you are going to translate each of these terms. But remember that in each particular context you have to decide again whether you have chosen the right word. Sometimes one of these words may fit better than another one.

Here is a brief summary of these four different terms:

* Soulthe total invisible, inner part of a person. This part of a person may live on even after their body dies.
* **Spirit**The spirit is very similar to soul, but with more emphasis on the relationship with God.
* HeartHeart is picture language for the place where a person's thoughts, feelings, and decisions happen.
* MindThe mind is very similar to heart, but a bit more emphasis on thoughts, intelligence, and the will, or the desire to do things.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 1:1–GEN 2:3; GEN 6:1–GEN 6:8; JHN 4:16–JHN 4:26; LUK 1:39–LUK 1:56; LUK 1:57–LUK 1:80; MRK 14:32–MRK 14:42; MAT 26:36–MAT 26:46; ACT 16:16–ACT 16:24; ACT 22:30–ACT 23:11; JHN 19:17–JHN 19:30; EXO 28:1–EXO 28:14; ACT 7:54–ACT 8:3; JHN 11:28–JHN 11:44; LUK 23:44–LUK 23:49
* **Associated Articles:** mind (ID: `280053@FIAKeyTerms`); mind (ID: `341049@FIAKeyTerms`); soul (ID: `280166@FIAKeyTerms`); heart (ID: `280173@FIAKeyTerms`); soul (ID: `341182@FIAKeyTerms`); heart (ID: `341189@FIAKeyTerms`); pray (ID: `280177@FIAKeyTerms`); pray (ID: `341194@FIAKeyTerms`)

