# Key Terms (SRV)

## License Information

**Key Terms (SRV)** is based on and adapted from: _Familiarization, Internalization, Articulation (Fia) Terms_, [SRV Partners](https://srvpartners.org/home/), 2023, which is licensed under a [CC BY-SA 4.0 license](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/4.0/legalcode.en).

This markdown version is provided under the same license.



--------------------------------

## Son of David (id: 280135)

**Son of David** means a descendant of David, even if that descendant is born many generations after David.

David was the most beloved king of the Israelites, and he lived about a thousand years before Jesus was born. God had promised David that always one of his descendants would rule over Israel. But because the Israelites were so disobedient to God, God allowed their enemies to conquer them. The kingdom of Israel stopped existing. But even in this difficult time, God gave the people messages of hope. Through his spokesmen, the prophets, God told the people that a time would come again when a descendant of David would rule over Israel. This king would save the people from their trouble and make everything right again.

And so the Israelites were expecting that one day God would send the people this king and Savior. They called this promised king the Messiah, or the Christ. A Messiah is someone who is appointed for a special task. The Messiah would be a descendant of David. When people in the New Testament call Jesus a "son of David," they mean to say that they believe that Jesus is the special king and Savior that God had promised to send.

* **Associated Passages:** MAT 1:1–MAT 1:17; MAT 15:21–MAT 15:28; MAT 20:29–MAT 20:34; MAT 21:12–MAT 21:22; MRK 10:46–MRK 10:52; MRK 12:35–MRK 12:37; LUK 20:41–LUK 20:44; MAT 21:1–MAT 21:11; MAT 12:22–MAT 12:32; MAT 9:27–MAT 9:38; LUK 18:35–LUK 19:10
* **Associated Articles:** David (ID: `280046@FIAKeyTerms`); David (ID: `341041@FIAKeyTerms`); Savior (ID: `280092@FIAKeyTerms`); prophecy (ID: `280109@FIAKeyTerms`); Savior (ID: `341094@FIAKeyTerms`); prophecy (ID: `341115@FIAKeyTerms`); kingdom (ID: `280130@FIAKeyTerms`); Israelite (ID: `280142@FIAKeyTerms`); Christ (ID: `280154@FIAKeyTerms`); Messiah (ID: `280155@FIAKeyTerms`); kingdom (ID: `341137@FIAKeyTerms`); Israelite (ID: `341150@FIAKeyTerms`); Christ (ID: `341167@FIAKeyTerms`); Messiah (ID: `341168@FIAKeyTerms`); king (ID: `341020@FIAKeyTerms`); king (ID: `341119@FIAKeyTerms`)

