# Familiarization, Internalization, Articulation (FIA) Key Terms

## License Information

**Familiarization, Internalization, Articulation (FIA) Key Terms** is based on and adapted from: _Familiarization, Internalization, Articulation (Fia) Terms_, [SRV Partners](https://srvpartners.org/home/), 2023, which is licensed under a [CC BY-SA 4.0 license](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/4.0/legalcode.en).

This markdown version is provided under the same license.



--------------------------------

## resurrection (id: 280068)

After Jesus died, he became alive again after three days. We say that he was **resurrected**. The event in which Jesus became alive again is called the **resurrection**. Jesus became alive again as a whole person\-with a body! He was not just a spirit, because people could touch Jesus. Jesus also ate with his disciples.

When Jesus will return to rule as king forever, the people whom God has accepted will become alive again and receive a new body\-a body that will never die again! This event is called the resurrection of the believers. Because Jesus became alive again, we can be sure that God will also make us alive again.

* **Associated Passages:** ACT 17:22–ACT 17:34; MRK 12:18–MRK 12:27; ACT 4:32–ACT 4:37; MAT 16:21–MAT 16:28; ACT 2:14–ACT 2:36; ACT 4:1–ACT 4:22; ACT 22:30–ACT 23:11; JHN 5:24–JHN 5:30; ACT 24:10–ACT 24:23; LUK 14:1–LUK 14:14; LUK 20:20–LUK 20:40; JHN 6:28–JHN 6:40
* **Associated Articles:** spirit (ID: `280113@FIAKeyTerms`); disciple (ID: `280210@FIAKeyTerms`); king (ID: `341020@FIAKeyTerms`); king (ID: `341119@FIAKeyTerms`); disciple (ID: `341232@FIAKeyTerms`)

