# Familiarization, Internalization, Articulation (FIA) Key Terms

## License Information

**Familiarization, Internalization, Articulation (FIA) Key Terms** is based on and adapted from: _Familiarization, Internalization, Articulation (Fia) Terms_, [SRV Partners](https://srvpartners.org/home/), 2023, which is licensed under a [CC BY-SA 4.0 license](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/4.0/legalcode.en).

This markdown version is provided under the same license.



--------------------------------

## Tyre (id: 280184)

Tyre is a city in Syrian Phoenicia, or Phoenicia, a region that is north of Israel. Tyre is located on the coast of the Mediterranean Sea. Today, this city is part of the country we now know as Lebanon. During the time of Jesus, Tyre was an important city in the region because the people in Phoenicia were good at building ships and in sailing to other countries in their ships for buying and selling goods. Tyre was not part of Israel, and the Jewish people knew that the people of Tyre were immoral and did not follow God's laws. Israelite prophets prophesied against Tyre. However, Jesus said that the Jewish towns who rejected him would receive even greater punishment when God judged them than Tyre would!

* **Associated Passages:** MRK 7:24–MRK 7:30; MRK 7:31–MRK 7:37
* **Associated Articles:** Syrian Phoenicia (ID: `280080@FIAKeyTerms`); Syrian Phoenicia (ID: `341081@FIAKeyTerms`); prophet (ID: `280091@FIAKeyTerms`); Israel (ID: `280207@FIAKeyTerms`); prophet (ID: `341093@FIAKeyTerms`); Israel (ID: `341229@FIAKeyTerms`)

