# Key Terms (SRV)

## License Information

**Key Terms (SRV)** is based on and adapted from: _Familiarization, Internalization, Articulation (Fia) Terms_, [SRV Partners](https://srvpartners.org/home/), 2023, which is licensed under a [CC BY-SA 4.0 license](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/4.0/legalcode.en).

This markdown version is provided under the same license.



--------------------------------

## salvation (id: 280168)

If you **save** someone, you rescue that person from a difficult or dangerous situation.

Whenever the Israelites were in a desperate situation, for instance when some enemies attacked them, they called out to God to save them. They wanted God to help them and to protect them. If God would not save the people, they would die.

In the New Testament, we learn that all people are in a desperate situation and need God to save them. And God does save us. God saves us because he loves us so much. God saved us by sending his son Jesus into the world. Anybody who trusts in Jesus will be saved. Therefore the Bible says that Jesus is our Savior. We cannot help ourselves. We all need God to save us. Another way to say this is that we all need salvation. God is the only one who can give people salvation. God saves people so that we no longer have to be afraid. We no longer have to be ashamed. We can now have a good relationship with God, and we can trust that even after we die, we will live forever with God.

**When you are translating "save" or "salvation," be careful about the following things:**

In some languages, you may always have to say what people need saving *from*. For instance, you may need to say that God saves a person from death, or from punishment. Or you may need to say that a person is asking God to save them from danger, or from dying. You may need to say different things in different passages.

* **Associated Passages:** ACT 11:1–ACT 11:18; JHN 4:16–JHN 4:26; LUK 7:36–LUK 8:3; LUK 3:1–LUK 3:14; MRK 13:9–MRK 13:23; MRK 16:9–MRK 16:20; ACT 16:16–ACT 16:24; ACT 4:1–ACT 4:22; ACT 13:42–ACT 13:52; MAT 10:16–MAT 10:25; ACT 28:17–ACT 28:31; ACT 16:25–ACT 16:40; JHN 10:1–JHN 10:10; ACT 13:23–ACT 13:41; LUK 23:26–LUK 23:43; LUK 18:35–LUK 19:10; LUK 13:22–LUK 13:30
* **Associated Articles:** forgiveness (ID: `280051@FIAKeyTerms`); forgiveness (ID: `341047@FIAKeyTerms`); Savior (ID: `280092@FIAKeyTerms`); Israelite (ID: `280142@FIAKeyTerms`); Savior (ID: `341094@FIAKeyTerms`); Israelite (ID: `341150@FIAKeyTerms`)

