# Familiarization, Internalization, Articulation (FIA) Key Terms

## License Information

**Familiarization, Internalization, Articulation (FIA) Key Terms** is based on and adapted from: _Familiarization, Internalization, Articulation (Fia) Terms_, [SRV Partners](https://srvpartners.org/home/), 2023, which is licensed under a [CC BY-SA 4.0 license](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/4.0/legalcode.en).

This markdown version is provided under the same license.



--------------------------------

## righteousness (id: 280058)

Someone who is **righteous** is behaving in the right way. God is righteous, because everything that God does is right and good.

God wants all people to be righteous. Only a righteous person can have a good relationship with God.

The person who wants to obey God and wants to do things that pleases God is righteous, even though they may still make mistakes and unintentionally disobey God. A righteous person is sad when they discover that they have disobeyed God, and they repent. An unrighteous person on the other hand keeps doing bad things, and does not believe or care that God might get angry or punish them.

When Abraham believed the promise that God gave him that Abraham would have many descendants, God considered Abraham righteous. Abraham was not righteous because he had done a good thing, but simply because he trusted God.

This same kind of righteousness is available for people who believe in Jesus. When people trust in Jesus, God gives them the gift of righteousness. When you believe that you can have a right relationship with God because of what Jesus has done for you, God declares that you are righteous.

**When you are translating righteousness, be careful about the following things:**

You may describe righteousness as being in a right relationship with God, being right in God's sight, or being accepted by God. Or you may describe righteousness as being blameless or innocent, or being blameless or innocent in God's sight.

Your language may have special words that describe the idea of righteousness, such as "having a straight heart," "being upright," "walking in God's path," or other things like that.

*You may ask the people in the group to act out in pairs, without using the word righteous, what righteousness means. Afterwards, discuss what you have seen and talk about whether the dramas were accurately explaining what righteousness means in the Bible. This activity can help you to find a way to explain righteousness in your translation.*

* **Associated Passages:** ACT 13:4–ACT 13:12; GEN 38:1–GEN 38:30; GEN 6:9–GEN 6:22; GEN 7:1–GEN 7:24; LUK 5:27–LUK 5:39; LUK 1:5–LUK 1:25; LUK 1:57–LUK 1:80; LUK 18:1–LUK 18:17; LUK 2:22–LUK 2:40; MAT 5:43–MAT 5:48; MAT 6:1–MAT 6:8; MAT 6:19–MAT 6:34; MAT 1:18–MAT 1:25; MAT 13:10–MAT 13:17; MAT 21:23–MAT 21:32; MAT 23:23–MAT 23:28; MAT 5:1–MAT 5:12; MAT 27:11–MAT 27:26; MRK 6:14–MRK 6:29; MRK 2:13–MRK 2:17; GEN 15:1–GEN 15:21; GEN 18:16–GEN 18:33; MAT 23:29–MAT 23:36; MAT 25:31–MAT 25:46; MAT 9:9–MAT 9:13; JHN 17:20–JHN 17:26; EXO 23:1–EXO 23:9; ACT 24:24–ACT 24:27; MAT 10:34–MAT 10:42; MAT 5:17–MAT 5:26; ACT 3:11–ACT 3:26; LUK 14:1–LUK 14:14; LUK 15:1–LUK 15:10; ACT 7:44–ACT 7:53; LUK 23:44–LUK 23:49; LUK 23:50–LUK 23:56; EXO 9:22–EXO 9:35
* **Associated Articles:** Abraham (ID: `280201@FIAKeyTerms`); Abraham (ID: `341221@FIAKeyTerms`)

