# Familiarization, Internalization, Articulation (FIA) Key Terms

## License Information

**Familiarization, Internalization, Articulation (FIA) Key Terms** is based on and adapted from: _Familiarization, Internalization, Articulation (Fia) Terms_, [SRV Partners](https://srvpartners.org/home/), 2023, which is licensed under a [CC BY-SA 4.0 license](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/4.0/legalcode.en).

This markdown version is provided under the same license.



--------------------------------

## vineyard (id: 280172)

A **vineyard** is a garden where people grow grapes. Grapes are a soft, juicy fruit that grows on a tree called a grapevine. People eat grapes fresh, or dry them in the sun. Once they are dried out, they are called **raisins** and can be kept for a long time. People also extract the juice from grapes to make an alcoholic drink called **wine**. Grapes are very common in Israel, and wine\-usually diluted with water\-was a common drink.

A vineyard usually had a wall around it so that wild animals or thieves could not come into the garden. People made this wall out of rocks or thorny bushes. Inside the vineyard was a hut for the watchman. This hut was a bit higher than the rest of the garden so that the watchman could look out over the garden. This was called a watchtower.

There was also a winepress. A winepress is a flat piece of stone with a ledge around it. People pour the grapes on this stone and then they trample on the grapes with their feet. This would squeeze out the juice from the grapes. The juice would flow into a container called a wine vat. Another way of taking out the juice was by rolling a heavy stone over the grapes.

Vineyards were so common in Israel that we often find them in picture language. In the Old Testament, God sometimes compared the people of Israel with a vineyard, or with a vine tree. Jesus told several parables in which he used something related to a vine tree, a vineyard, or to wine, to explain something about the kingdom of God.

*You could look at the pictures of a vineyard in the video Bible dictionary.*

* **Associated Passages:** MAT 20:1–MAT 20:16; MRK 12:1–MRK 12:12; EXO 23:10–EXO 23:19; MAT 21:33–MAT 21:46; LUK 20:9–LUK 20:19; LUK 13:1–LUK 13:9; EXO 22:1–EXO 22:6
* **Associated Articles:** winepress (ID: `280050@FIAKeyTerms`); winepress (ID: `341045@FIAKeyTerms`); kingdom of God (ID: `280121@FIAKeyTerms`); Israel (ID: `280207@FIAKeyTerms`); kingdom of God (ID: `341128@FIAKeyTerms`); Israel (ID: `341229@FIAKeyTerms`); wine (ID: `341025@FIAKeyTerms`); wine (ID: `341154@FIAKeyTerms`)

