# Key Terms (SRV)

## License Information

**Key Terms (SRV)** is based on and adapted from: _Familiarization, Internalization, Articulation (Fia) Terms_, [SRV Partners](https://srvpartners.org/home/), 2023, which is licensed under a [CC BY-SA 4.0 license](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/4.0/legalcode.en).

This markdown version is provided under the same license.



--------------------------------

## sanctuary (id: 280141)

The word sanctuary means a holy place\-a place that is set apart for the worship of God. The word sanctuary is sometimes used as another word to describe the temple of God. It then means especially the central part of the temple. The word temple can be used for the building as well as for the courtyards surrounding it, but the word sanctuary is used only for the building. The word sanctuary can also refer to the tabernacle, the portable tent that the Israelites used as a place of worship before they built the temple.

Because the Holy Spirit lives inside the believers in Jesus, Paul told the believers that their body is also a sanctuary for God. And so even our bodies are meant for worship of God!

* **Associated Passages:** LUK 1:5–LUK 1:25; EXO 30:22–EXO 30:33; EXO 25:1–EXO 25:9; EXO 35:30–EXO 36:7; EXO 38:21–EXO 38:31
* **Associated Articles:** worship (ID: `280052@FIAKeyTerms`); worship (ID: `341048@FIAKeyTerms`); temple (ID: `280063@FIAKeyTerms`); holy (ID: `280086@FIAKeyTerms`); temple (ID: `341062@FIAKeyTerms`); holy (ID: `341087@FIAKeyTerms`); Holy Spirit (ID: `280222@FIAKeyTerms`); tabernacle (ID: `341017@FIAKeyTerms`); tabernacle (ID: `341107@FIAKeyTerms`); Holy Spirit (ID: `341246@FIAKeyTerms`)

