# Key Terms (SRV)

## License Information

**Key Terms (SRV)** is based on and adapted from: _Familiarization, Internalization, Articulation (Fia) Terms_, [SRV Partners](https://srvpartners.org/home/), 2023, which is licensed under a [CC BY-SA 4.0 license](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/4.0/legalcode.en).

This markdown version is provided under the same license.



--------------------------------

## soul (id: 280166)

God created people with a body, and we can touch and see each other's body. But God also created people with thoughts and feelings and desires. We cannot see this part of a person, but we know it is there. This invisible part of a person is in the Bible usually called a **soul**. Even when our body dies, our soul may live on.

Without a soul, a person is not complete. Therefore, the Bible often uses the word soul just as another way of saying "person." For example, in one passage the Bible speaks about "fourteen souls in one family." This simply means fourteen people in a family.

In other places, the word soul refers to the *life* of a person. Jesus said that he came to give up his *soul* for the people. This means that he came to give up his *life* for the people.

The Bible also uses the word "spirit" to refer to the inner, invisible, part of a person. When the Bible uses the word spirit, the focus is on the relationship that a person has with God. When we are praying, our spirit is talking with God. When someone who believes in Jesus dies, their spirit will continue to live with God.

Some people think that the spirit and the soul are the same, and that these two different words are only giving a slightly different emphasis. Other people think that they are different, and that each person has a body, a soul, and a spirit.

**When you are translating "soul," be careful about the following things:**

Please note that you also need to have a word for "spirit," "heart," and "mind." The words heart, mind, soul, and spirit, all have to do with the inner, invisible part of a person, but each of them has a slightly different use. You may want to listen to the explanations of each of these terms, and then discuss all these four terms together. You can then make a decision about how you are going to translate each of these terms. But remember that in each particular context you have to decide again whether you have chosen the right word. Sometimes one of these words may fit better than another one.

Here is a brief summary of these four different terms:

* **Soul**the total invisible, inner part of a person. This part of a person may live on even after their body dies.
* SpiritThe spirit is very similar to soul, but with more emphasis on the relationship with God.
* HeartHeart is picture language for the place where a person's thoughts, feelings, and decisions happen.
* MindThe mind is very similar to heart, but a bit more emphasis on thoughts, intelligence, and the will, or the desire to do something.

* **Associated Passages:** LUK 1:39–LUK 1:56; LUK 2:22–LUK 2:40; MRK 8:31–MRK 9:1; MRK 12:28–MRK 12:34; MRK 14:32–MRK 14:42; ACT 4:32–ACT 4:37; MAT 26:36–MAT 26:46; JHN 12:20–JHN 12:36; MAT 12:15–MAT 12:21; MAT 11:25–MAT 11:30; MAT 16:21–MAT 16:28; ACT 2:37–ACT 2:41; MAT 10:34–MAT 10:42; MAT 10:26–MAT 10:33
* **Associated Articles:** mind (ID: `280053@FIAKeyTerms`); mind (ID: `341049@FIAKeyTerms`); spirit (ID: `280113@FIAKeyTerms`); heart (ID: `280173@FIAKeyTerms`); pray (ID: `280177@FIAKeyTerms`); heart (ID: `341189@FIAKeyTerms`); pray (ID: `341194@FIAKeyTerms`)

