# Key Terms (SRV)

## License Information

**Key Terms (SRV)** is based on and adapted from: _Familiarization, Internalization, Articulation (Fia) Terms_, [SRV Partners](https://srvpartners.org/home/), 2023, which is licensed under a [CC BY-SA 4.0 license](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/4.0/legalcode.en).

This markdown version is provided under the same license.



--------------------------------

## sin (id: 280057)

God created the whole world good. God created humankind to be his representatives on earth. God told the humans to take care of the earth. At first, man and woman lived in a good relationship with God, with each other, and with nature. But people began to disobey God. They stopped trusting God, and they wanted to decide for themselves what was good for them. They no longer wanted to accept God's authority over them. This act of rebellion against God is called **sin**. Because of this rebellion, the good relationship that people had with God was broken. Not only that, the good relationship that people had with each other was also broken, and the whole of creation suffered as well.

This rebellion against God comes in many different ways. God has made good laws, and if people follow these laws, then people will be able to live together in peace. But people are constantly breaking God's laws. Any time that a person breaks one of God's laws, they sin.

God hates sin. He grieves when people disobey him, because his rules are for people's good. Therefore, God has to punish people for doing sin. If people persist in doing sin, then the punishment is death.

Jesus teaches us that sin is not only a matter of *doing* the wrong thing. *Thinking* wrong things is also sin, even if no one else knows about it. Pride, jealousy, and lust are sin. Looking down on other people is sin. We can do many good things in the eyes of people, but if we are overly proud about what we do, we are still sinning.

The Bible teaches us that Jesus saved his people from their sins. That means that God will not give people the punishment that they deserve. This is because Jesus took the punishment in their place. In the Old Testament, the way for people to ask forgiveness for their sins was by offering God a sacrifice. People had to kill an animal and offer this to God in exchange for their own life. The animal that they offered to God had to be a perfect animal, without any defect. Because of this sacrifice, God forgave them\-but only until the next time they sinned. Jesus himself became the perfect sacrifice for all people. Jesus himself had not committed any sin, and so he was like a perfect sacrificial animal. Jesus's sacrifice was so powerful, that because of this God was willing to forgive the sin of all people\-not just temporarily, but forever. God will forgive everybody who accepts that Jesus died in their place. These people are now "saved." They do not have to be afraid anymore of punishment. God says that these people now are righteous.

This forgiveness is not cheap! It cost Jesus his life. And so, anyone who accepts Jesus's sacrifice will do his best to stop doing sin, because they are so grateful to Jesus. Paul teaches us that before we were saved, we were slaves of sin. This means we gave in to the pressure and temptation to do sins. But now that God has forgiven us, we are slaves of righteousness\-we earnestly want to do the things that please God, instead of doing the things that make him sad.

It is still very difficult\-even impossible\-for people not to do sins. But God has given his Holy Spirit to help us. The Holy Spirit helps us to see which things are sin, and helps us to resist the temptation to do sin. Without the help of the Holy Spirit, we cannot do this.

When we are saved, we still do sin, but we are no longer sinners. Because now, we repent when we sin. A sinner is someone who continues to do sin, even though he knows it is wrong.

When Jesus lived on earth, the religious leaders were complaining that Jesus ate with sinners. The religious leaders used the word "sinners" to talk about a specific group of people who disobeyed God's laws in a certain way, for instance prostitutes and corrupt tax collectors. The religious leaders, especially the Pharisees, looked down on these people. But many of these so\-called sinners who came to listen to Jesus wanted to repent of their sins. Jesus explained to the religious leaders that this was exactly the reason why he had come to earth: to make people repent of their sins. Jesus showed the people that God was happier about sinners who repented, than about people who were so proud that they did not think that they needed to repent.

**When you are translating "sin," be careful about the following things:**

Some cultures think that some actions are only bad if they are discovered. For instance, they may think that cheating is fine, as long as nobody knows about it\-it only becomes a problem when other people find out about it and when it creates embarrassment. The word for sin in the Bible is not like this. Disobeying God is always bad, whether people know about it or not.

Some cultures have a word for sin that means performing a ritual in the wrong way, or doing something that is against tradition, or doing something that goes against your prescribed place in society. This is not what sin is in the Bible. Jesus teaches us that sin has nothing to do with the performing of rituals, but with our thoughts and actions. Even people who perform all cultural rituals and expectations perfectly, are rebelling against God and are sinning.

Some cultures use a word for sin that means "ignorance." This is not what the word sin in the Bible means.

Some cultures have a word for sin that is only used for legal crimes like murder or theft. The word sin in the Bible means much more than only crimes. Even people who never disobey the law of the country, are breaking the law of God and commit sin.

*One way to think about how you could translate sin is to do the following activity: In small groups, act out what sin means. Afterwards, decide which of these dramas fit the biblical meaning of sin best. Talk about how the meaning of sin in the Bible is different from what you thought, or from what other people in your community think that sin is.*

* **Associated Passages:** ACT 11:1–ACT 11:18; ACT 19:1–ACT 19:7; GEN 13:1–GEN 13:18; GEN 26:1–GEN 26:33; GEN 39:1–GEN 39:23; GEN 42:1–GEN 42:26; GEN 44:14–GEN 44:34; GEN 50:15–GEN 50:21; LUK 5:1–LUK 5:11; LUK 5:17–LUK 5:26; LUK 5:27–LUK 5:39; LUK 6:27–LUK 6:36; LUK 7:36–LUK 8:3; LUK 1:57–LUK 1:80; LUK 16:19–LUK 16:31; LUK 17:1–LUK 17:10; LUK 18:1–LUK 18:17; MAT 5:27–MAT 5:32; MAT 6:9–MAT 6:18; MAT 1:18–MAT 1:25; MAT 13:36–MAT 13:43; MAT 18:1–MAT 18:9; MAT 24:3–MAT 24:14; MAT 27:1–MAT 27:10; MRK 1:1–MRK 1:13; MRK 3:20–MRK 3:35; MRK 7:14–MRK 7:23; MRK 11:12–MRK 11:26; MRK 14:32–MRK 14:42; MRK 2:1–MRK 2:12; MRK 2:13–MRK 2:17; GEN 18:16–GEN 18:33; GEN 20:1–GEN 20:18; GEN 4:1–GEN 4:16; MAT 18:15–MAT 18:20; MAT 9:1–MAT 9:8; LUK 11:1–LUK 11:13; MAT 9:9–MAT 9:13; MAT 12:22–MAT 12:32; MAT 11:7–MAT 11:19; EXO 29:10–EXO 29:18; JHN 19:1–JHN 19:16; JHN 1:29–JHN 1:34; EXO 10:1–EXO 10:20; EXO 20:18–EXO 20:26; EXO 23:20–EXO 23:33; JHN 15:18–JHN 15:27; ACT 2:37–ACT 2:41; MAT 26:26–MAT 26:35; JHN 9:24–JHN 9:34; JHN 5:1–JHN 5:15; ACT 21:37–ACT 22:21; MAT 12:38–MAT 12:45; JHN 9:1–JHN 9:12; JHN 8:21–JHN 8:30; ACT 5:27–ACT 5:42; JHN 20:19–JHN 20:31; JHN 8:1–JHN 8:11; JHN 9:13–JHN 9:23; JHN 9:35–JHN 9:41; ACT 3:11–ACT 3:26; LUK 13:1–LUK 13:9; LUK 15:1–LUK 15:10; LUK 24:36–LUK 24:53; ACT 10:34–ACT 10:48; JHN 8:31–JHN 8:47; LUK 18:35–LUK 19:10; EXO 34:1–EXO 34:9; EXO 29:29–EXO 29:37; EXO 9:22–EXO 9:35
* **Associated Articles:** forgiveness (ID: `280051@FIAKeyTerms`); forgiveness (ID: `341047@FIAKeyTerms`); righteousness (ID: `280058@FIAKeyTerms`); law (ID: `280072@FIAKeyTerms`); righteousness (ID: `341054@FIAKeyTerms`); law (ID: `341072@FIAKeyTerms`); Pharisee (ID: `280087@FIAKeyTerms`); sacrifice (ID: `280139@FIAKeyTerms`); peace (ID: `280162@FIAKeyTerms`); repentance (ID: `280176@FIAKeyTerms`); Pharisee (ID: `341088@FIAKeyTerms`); sacrifice (ID: `341147@FIAKeyTerms`); peace (ID: `341178@FIAKeyTerms`); repentance (ID: `341192@FIAKeyTerms`); Holy Spirit (ID: `280222@FIAKeyTerms`); Holy Spirit (ID: `341246@FIAKeyTerms`)

