# Key Terms (SRV)

## License Information

**Key Terms (SRV)** is based on and adapted from: _Familiarization, Internalization, Articulation (Fia) Terms_, [SRV Partners](https://srvpartners.org/home/), 2023, which is licensed under a [CC BY-SA 4.0 license](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/4.0/legalcode.en).

This markdown version is provided under the same license.



--------------------------------

## scriptures (id: 280175)

A **scripture** can mean anything that is written down, but it *especially* means something that is written down and very important to people. When people in the New Testament talk about the Scripture, or the **Scriptures**, they are talking about the part of the Bible that Christians now call the Old Testament. The Old Testament consisted of what the people sometimes called "the Law and the Prophets" because it was made up of the written laws and instructions that God gave his people through Moses, and the writings of the Jewish prophets. Sometimes this is called the *holy* Scriptures. The Scriptures are called holy because they tell us about God, who is holy.

Sometimes people talked about something from the Scriptures without saying the word "Scriptures." Everybody knew that if you said "it is written," you meant something that was written in the Scriptures.

The Scriptures were not written down on paper, the way people do now. Books and paper did not yet exist. Instead, the Scriptures were written on long strips of papyrus or parchment. Papyrus is a thin sheet that is made from the fibers of a certain plant, and parchment is made from the skin of an animal. Because those sheets were very long, people rolled them up. The name for such a sheet is a scroll. On both ends of the scroll people attached a narrow wooden handle, like a round stick. When people were reading from a scroll, they would unroll one side of the scroll, and roll up the other end around the stick.

Scrolls could become damaged quickly, especially those made of papyrus. Therefore people who are called scribes were always busy copying the text from one scroll to a new scroll, so that the text would not get lost. Scrolls were expensive. Most people did not own a scroll. Instead, scrolls were kept in the synagogues\-the Jewish meeting places. Many Jewish people knew large parts of these scrolls by heart; sometimes even people who could not read could recite large parts of the scrolls.

*Look up "scroll" in the video Bible dictionary.*

* **Associated Passages:** ACT 8:26–ACT 8:40; ACT 17:1–ACT 17:9; ACT 17:10–ACT 17:15; ACT 18:24–ACT 18:28; LUK 4:14–LUK 4:30; LUK 6:1–LUK 6:11; MRK 2:23–MRK 3:6; MRK 9:2–MRK 9:13; MRK 12:1–MRK 12:12; MRK 12:18–MRK 12:27; MRK 14:12–MRK 14:26; MRK 14:27–MRK 14:31; MRK 14:43–MRK 14:52; JHN 12:20–JHN 12:36; MAT 22:23–MAT 22:33; MAT 21:33–MAT 21:46; MAT 11:7–MAT 11:19; MAT 26:47–MAT 26:56; LUK 24:13–LUK 24:35; LUK 20:9–LUK 20:19; JHN 10:22–JHN 10:42; JHN 7:37–JHN 7:44; JHN 5:31–JHN 5:47; JHN 20:1–JHN 20:18; JHN 13:12–JHN 13:30; ACT 1:15–ACT 1:26; JHN 19:31–JHN 19:42; LUK 24:36–LUK 24:53; JHN 17:1–JHN 17:19
* **Associated Articles:** holy (ID: `280086@FIAKeyTerms`); holy (ID: `341087@FIAKeyTerms`); Jew (ID: `280105@FIAKeyTerms`); prophecy (ID: `280109@FIAKeyTerms`); Jew (ID: `341109@FIAKeyTerms`); prophecy (ID: `341115@FIAKeyTerms`); synagogue (ID: `280124@FIAKeyTerms`); synagogue (ID: `341131@FIAKeyTerms`)

