# Familiarization, Internalization, Articulation (FIA) Key Terms

## License Information

**Familiarization, Internalization, Articulation (FIA) Key Terms** is based on and adapted from: _Familiarization, Internalization, Articulation (Fia) Terms_, [SRV Partners](https://srvpartners.org/home/), 2023, which is licensed under a [CC BY-SA 4.0 license](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/4.0/legalcode.en).

This markdown version is provided under the same license.



--------------------------------

## sanhedrin (id: 280137)

The **Sanhedrin** is the name for a group of Jewish leaders who are appointed to make decisions on behalf of the people, especially with regards to religion. In the time of the New Testament, Israel was ruled by the Roman people, but the Jews could decide some matters for themselves. These decisions took place in the Sanhedrin. The Sanhedrin listened to court cases and passed judgment based on religious law. When they met for a trial, they usually sat in semi\-circles so that they could all see each other. The accused person sat in the middle of the circle.

Another name for Sanhedrin is the **Jewish court**, or the **Jewish Council**.

We do not know very much about the Sanhedrin. It seems that religious leaders like priests, Sadducees, and Pharisees were part of this group. Some wealthy people who were not religious leaders might also have been part of the Sanhedrin. The most important priest, the high priest, was probably the leader of the Sanhedrin.

If you were a member of the Sanhedrin, you were an important person.

The people who made up the Sanhedrin were often against Jesus. They were responsible for handing him over to the Roman government, and for demanding his death. After Jesus's death and resurrection, the Sanhedrin arrested several of Jesus's disciples.

* **Associated Passages:** MAT 26:57–MAT 26:68; MRK 14:53–MRK 14:65; MRK 15:1–MRK 15:15; MRK 15:40–MRK 15:47; JHN 11:45–JHN 11:57; LUK 24:13–LUK 24:35; ACT 4:1–ACT 4:22; ACT 6:8–ACT 6:15; ACT 5:17–ACT 5:26; ACT 21:37–ACT 22:21; ACT 22:30–ACT 23:11; ACT 5:27–ACT 5:42; ACT 23:12–ACT 23:35; MAT 5:17–MAT 5:26; ACT 24:10–ACT 24:23; JHN 3:1–JHN 3:8; LUK 22:63–LUK 22:71; LUK 23:50–LUK 23:56
* **Associated Articles:** high priest (ID: `280074@FIAKeyTerms`); high priest (ID: `341074@FIAKeyTerms`); Pharisee (ID: `280087@FIAKeyTerms`); Jew (ID: `280105@FIAKeyTerms`); Pharisee (ID: `341088@FIAKeyTerms`); Jew (ID: `341109@FIAKeyTerms`); priest (ID: `280194@FIAKeyTerms`); disciple (ID: `280210@FIAKeyTerms`); Sadducee (ID: `280219@FIAKeyTerms`); priest (ID: `341214@FIAKeyTerms`); disciple (ID: `341232@FIAKeyTerms`); Sadducee (ID: `341242@FIAKeyTerms`)

