# Familiarization, Internalization, Articulation (FIA) Key Terms

## License Information

**Familiarization, Internalization, Articulation (FIA) Key Terms** is based on and adapted from: _Familiarization, Internalization, Articulation (Fia) Terms_, [SRV Partners](https://srvpartners.org/home/), 2023, which is licensed under a [CC BY-SA 4.0 license](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/4.0/legalcode.en).

This markdown version is provided under the same license.



--------------------------------

## tabernacle (id: 341017)

The **tabernacle** was a tent where the Israelites worshiped God. Another name for the tabernacle is "tent of meeting," because this tent was the place where the Israelites could meet God.

Several thousand years before the birth of Jesus, God had freed the descendants of Abraham, the Israelites, from slavery in Egypt. The leader of the Israelites was Moses. God gave Moses instructions about what was the right way for the Israelites to worship God. Because God is holy, and people are sinful, people can not just come to God as they are. God cannot stand sin, and any person who would come to God directly would die. But God made it possible for people to come to him, at that time, through sacrifices and other rituals that made people clean. When people were ritually clean, that meant they were acceptable before God.

God told Moses to make a special tent that would be the place where people could meet God safely. This was the tabernacle. People made the tabernacle with wooden panels that were covered in gold. On top of the construction they placed beautiful pieces of fabric. Whenever the people traveled, they took the tabernacle apart and carried the parts of the tabernacle with them on their shoulders. When they came to the next place, they put it together again.

Priests were special people who worked in the tabernacle. Priests made it possible for people to come before God and to have a good relationship with God. The priests did this by offering sacrifices on behalf of the people and by teaching people how to live.

In front of the tabernacle was a courtyard. In the courtyard was an altar, which is a place where the priests brought offerings to God.

The tabernacle itself was divided in two parts. The first part was called "the holy place." Only priests could enter that place. Inside this place was a table with 12 loaves of bread that the priests replaced every week, an oil lamp that was always kept burning, and a small altar on which the priest burned sweet smelling spices. All these items were symbols, or pictures, of some bigger meaning. The priests ate the loaves of bread, probably as a symbol for having a meal together with God; this showed the good relationship that people can have with God. Oil in the Bible is often a symbol for the Holy Spirit, for the power of God. The oil lamp therefore was a symbol of God being present with the people. And the sweet smelling spices were a symbol of the prayers that people offered to God.

At the end of the holy place hung a heavy curtain. Behind this curtain was "the most holy place." Inside this most holy place stood the ark of the covenant. This was a wooden chest that was completely covered with gold, inside and out. On top of the chest were two creatures with wings that represented a special kind of angel. This chest symbolized the throne of God.

This was the most holy place, because God himself was in this place. Only the high priest\-the most important priest\-could enter this place, and he could enter only once a year. The high priest entered on the "day of atonement"\-the great day of forgiveness. Even though the Israelites asked God for forgiveness for their sins every day, once a year the high priest would ask forgiveness for all the sins that all people had unknowingly done in the past year. The sins that people did made the tabernacle unclean, or unfit for service to God. One of the things that the high priest did on the great day of forgiveness was to enter this most holy place and spread blood over the ark of the covenant. This symbolized that the temple was made clean again of all the sins that the people had committed.

Much later, when the Israelites were settled in the land, they replaced the tabernacle with a permanent building, the temple. The temple had the same function as the tabernacle had, and had the same structure with a courtyard, a holy place, and a most holy place.

* **Associated Passages:** MRK 2:23–MRK 3:6; EXO 30:11–EXO 30:16; EXO 30:17–EXO 30:21; EXO 29:10–EXO 29:18; EXO 30:22–EXO 30:33; EXO 31:1–EXO 31:11; EXO 25:1–EXO 25:9; EXO 39:32–EXO 39:43; ACT 7:44–ACT 7:53; EXO 28:31–EXO 28:43; EXO 29:1–EXO 29:9; EXO 35:1–EXO 35:19; EXO 26:15–EXO 26:30; EXO 36:8–EXO 36:19; EXO 26:1–EXO 26:14; EXO 30:34–EXO 30:38; EXO 36:20–EXO 36:34; EXO 37:25–EXO 38:8; EXO 35:30–EXO 36:7; ACT 7:35–ACT 7:43; EXO 29:38–EXO 29:46; EXO 26:31–EXO 26:37; EXO 35:20–EXO 35:29; EXO 40:16–EXO 40:33; EXO 38:21–EXO 38:31; EXO 36:35–EXO 36:38; EXO 29:29–EXO 29:37
* **Associated Articles:** forgiveness (ID: `280051@FIAKeyTerms`); forgiveness (ID: `341047@FIAKeyTerms`); worship (ID: `280052@FIAKeyTerms`); sin (ID: `280057@FIAKeyTerms`); worship (ID: `341048@FIAKeyTerms`); sin (ID: `341053@FIAKeyTerms`); temple (ID: `280063@FIAKeyTerms`); high priest (ID: `280074@FIAKeyTerms`); angel (ID: `280078@FIAKeyTerms`); holy (ID: `280086@FIAKeyTerms`); temple (ID: `341062@FIAKeyTerms`); high priest (ID: `341074@FIAKeyTerms`); angel (ID: `341079@FIAKeyTerms`); holy (ID: `341087@FIAKeyTerms`); sacrifice (ID: `280139@FIAKeyTerms`); Israelite (ID: `280142@FIAKeyTerms`); pray (ID: `280177@FIAKeyTerms`); priest (ID: `280194@FIAKeyTerms`); clean/unclean (ID: `280195@FIAKeyTerms`); Abraham (ID: `280201@FIAKeyTerms`); oil lamp (ID: `280217@FIAKeyTerms`); Holy Spirit (ID: `280222@FIAKeyTerms`); sacrifice (ID: `341147@FIAKeyTerms`); Israelite (ID: `341150@FIAKeyTerms`); pray (ID: `341194@FIAKeyTerms`); priest (ID: `341214@FIAKeyTerms`); clean/unclean (ID: `341215@FIAKeyTerms`); Abraham (ID: `341221@FIAKeyTerms`); oil lamp (ID: `341239@FIAKeyTerms`); Holy Spirit (ID: `341246@FIAKeyTerms`); altar (ID: `341008@FIAKeyTerms`); altar (ID: `341040@FIAKeyTerms`)

