# Key Terms (SRV)

## License Information

**Key Terms (SRV)** is based on and adapted from: _Familiarization, Internalization, Articulation (Fia) Terms_, [SRV Partners](https://srvpartners.org/home/), 2023, which is licensed under a [CC BY-SA 4.0 license](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/4.0/legalcode.en).

This markdown version is provided under the same license.



--------------------------------

## sabbath (id: 280146)

The **Sabbath** is the seventh day in the week for the Jews. It is a day of rest and worship to God. On that day, the Jews often gather together in the synagogue\-which is the local Jewish meeting place\-to pray and to listen to teaching about God.

The Jews counted days from evening to evening. That means that the Sabbath began on the evening of the sixth day, and finished on the evening of the seventh day.

In the time of Moses, God had commanded the Israelites to rest from all their work on each seventh day. God told the people that he had created the world in six days and rested on the seventh day. For that reason, the seventh day was a holy day. The day belonged to God. By resting each seventh day, the people learned that they could trust God for all their needs. They did not need to be working all the time, because God was taking care of them. This day of rest was a beautiful gift of God to the people. The Israelites needed to keep this rest throughout the whole year, even during the busy time of the harvest. By keeping this day of rest, people from other countries could see that the Jews were different. It was a sign that the Jews were God's special people.

It was very important to God that the Israelites did the right things on the Sabbath. If someone *did* work on the Sabbath, we say that that person did not "keep the Sabbath," or "broke the Sabbath." It was very bad if someone did not keep the Sabbath.

The Sabbath was a day of rest for everyone in a family, even for servants or slaves, and for the animals as well. It was a day of rest for the whole creation.

By the time of Jesus, the Jewish religious teachers were so careful not to disobey God, that they had made many extra rules about the Sabbath. These rules were very difficult to follow. The religious leaders had forgotten that the day was meant to rest and to honor God. Jesus and the religious leaders had several arguments about the Sabbath. Jesus was often frustrated with the religious leaders because they thought that the rules made by people were more important than the good law that God had given, and they did not think about what God really wanted.

* **Associated Passages:** ACT 13:13–ACT 13:22; ACT 17:1–ACT 17:9; LUK 4:14–LUK 4:30; LUK 4:31–LUK 4:44; LUK 6:1–LUK 6:11; MAT 28:1–MAT 28:15; MAT 24:15–MAT 24:28; MRK 2:23–MRK 3:6; MRK 6:1–MRK 6:6; MRK 1:21–MRK 1:28; MRK 15:40–MRK 15:47; MRK 16:1–MRK 16:8; ACT 1:12–ACT 1:14; LUK 13:10–LUK 13:17; MAT 12:1–MAT 12:14; ACT 18:1–ACT 18:17; ACT 13:42–ACT 13:52; JHN 5:1–JHN 5:15; JHN 5:16–JHN 5:23; ACT 16:6–ACT 16:15; JHN 7:11–JHN 7:24; JHN 19:31–JHN 19:42; ACT 13:23–ACT 13:41; JHN 9:13–JHN 9:23; LUK 14:1–LUK 14:14; EXO 35:1–EXO 35:19; JHN 6:28–JHN 6:40; EXO 16:22–EXO 16:36; EXO 20:8–EXO 20:17; LUK 23:50–LUK 23:56
* **Associated Articles:** worship (ID: `280052@FIAKeyTerms`); worship (ID: `341048@FIAKeyTerms`); servant (ID: `280062@FIAKeyTerms`); holy (ID: `280086@FIAKeyTerms`); servant (ID: `341059@FIAKeyTerms`); holy (ID: `341087@FIAKeyTerms`); Jew (ID: `280105@FIAKeyTerms`); synagogue (ID: `280124@FIAKeyTerms`); Israelite (ID: `280142@FIAKeyTerms`); pray (ID: `280177@FIAKeyTerms`); Jew (ID: `341109@FIAKeyTerms`); synagogue (ID: `341131@FIAKeyTerms`); Israelite (ID: `341150@FIAKeyTerms`); pray (ID: `341194@FIAKeyTerms`); slave (ID: `280197@FIAKeyTerms`); slave (ID: `341217@FIAKeyTerms`)

