# Key Terms (SRV)

## License Information

**Key Terms (SRV)** is based on and adapted from: _Familiarization, Internalization, Articulation (Fia) Terms_, [SRV Partners](https://srvpartners.org/home/), 2023, which is licensed under a [CC BY-SA 4.0 license](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/4.0/legalcode.en).

This markdown version is provided under the same license.



--------------------------------

## temple (id: 280063)

A **temple** is a place where people worship God. The temple in the Bible is the place where God meets with people. Another name for the temple is **the house of God**.

The people groups that lived around Israel worshiped many different gods, and had many temples. But God allowed the Israelites to worship only him, and to have only one temple. This temple was in Jerusalem, the most important city for the Jews.

Several thousand years before the birth of Jesus, God had freed the descendants of Abraham, the Israelites, from slavery in Egypt. The leader of the Israelites was Moses. God gave Moses instructions about what was the right way for the Israelites to worship God. Because God is holy, and people are sinful, people can not just come to God as they are. God cannot stand sin, so any person who would come to God directly would die. But God made it possible for people to come to him through sacrifices and other rituals that made people clean. To be clean means to be acceptable before God.

God told Moses to make a tabernacle\-which means a tent\-that would be the place where people could meet God safely. This tabernacle was like a portable temple. Wherever the people traveled, they took the tabernacle with them.

Much later, when David was king over Israel, David wanted to replace this portable temple, the tabernacle, with a fixed building. God did not allow David to build a temple for him, because David had been a soldier and had killed people. But God told David that David's son could build this temple for God. And God allowed David to give his son instructions about how exactly to build this temple.

King Solomon, David's son, did indeed build a splendid temple for God. Even so, Solomon realized that God is much too big to really live in the temple; he said that even heaven was not big enough for God! And so, the fact that God was willing to come down to earth and call a small place like the temple, in the middle of sinful people, his home, was proof of how much God loved people.

Much later, the enemies of the Israelites destroyed this temple. God had allowed this to happen because the Israelites had been unfaithful to God and had begun to worship other gods. The Israelites were deported to other countries and the worship in the temple was over.

But after many years, God allowed the Israelites\-who by that time were more often called Jews\-to come back to the land. The Jews built a new temple for God. This temple was much smaller than the first one.

About 20 years before the birth of Jesus, a ruler named king Herod began to rebuild that small temple into something very big and impressive. He did this because he wanted to make the Jews happy so that they would support his rule. At the time of Jesus, the work on this temple was still going on.

All these temples, and the portable tabernacle as well, had the same basic structure, and the same rituals took place. There was a courtyard in front of the temple. This is where priests and the Levites worked to perform the sacrifices that the Israelites made. Levites are descendants of Levi, who was one of the great\-grandsons of Abraham. God had set the Levites apart to take care of God's temple. Priests were Levites with the special task to perform the sacrifices. Sacrifices are gifts that people give to God in order to thank him or to ask for forgiveness for sin. A sacrifice could be an animal that was killed and burned, or it could be sweet smelling oil, or food of some sort\-this depended on the reason for the sacrifice.

The temple building itself was divided in two parts. The first part was called "the holy place." Only priests could enter that place. Inside this place was a table with 12 loaves of bread that were replaced every week, an oil lamp that was always kept burning, and a small altar on which the priest burned sweet smelling spices. All these items were symbols, or pictures, of some bigger meaning. The priests ate the loaves of bread, probably as a symbol for having a meal together with God\-this showed the good relationship that people can have with God. Oil in the Bible is often a symbol for the Holy Spirit, for the power of God. The oil lamp therefore was a symbol of God being present with the people. And the sweet smelling spices were a symbol of the prayers that people offered to God.

At the end of the holy place hung a heavy curtain. Behind this curtain was the most holy place. Inside this holy place stood the ark of the covenant, which is a wooden chest. This was the most holy place, because God himself was in this place. Only the high priest\-the most important priest\-could enter this place, and that only once a year. This happened on the "day of atonement," the great day of forgiveness. Even though Israelites asked God forgiveness for their sins throughout the year, once a year the high priest would ask forgiveness for all the sins that all people had unknowingly done in the past year. The sins that people did made the temple unclean, or unfit for service to God. One of the things that the high priest did on the great day of forgiveness was to enter this most holy place and spread blood over the ark of the covenant. This symbolized that the temple was made clean again of all the sins that the people had committed.

The temple stood in Jerusalem, the most important city of Israel. Jewish people would travel to Jerusalem to celebrate important festivals and rituals in the temple. In the time of Jesus, there were several courtyards around the temple. If you were a *foreigner* visiting the temple, you could only come as far as the outer courtyard. Jewish *women* could enter into the next courtyard as well. Jewish *men* could go one courtyard further. Only the priests could enter the courtyard where the sacrifices were made. In the Old Testament, we do not find these rules about courtyards. These were rules that the Jewish people had made themselves.

But even in the Old Testament, only the *priests* could enter the temple, and only the high priest could go through the heavy curtain into the most holy place. This all showed to the people how holy God was, and how different and separated he was from people. When Jesus died on the cross, something very strange happened inside the temple. The book of Matthew tells us that the curtain of the temple was torn in half\-from top to bottom! This showed us that because of Jesus's death this great separation between God and people disappeared. Jesus's sacrifice made it possible for people to now approach God without fear and hesitation.

About 40 years after Jesus went back to heaven, the Romans destroyed this temple. The Jewish people had rebelled against the Romans, who were ruling over them, and because of that the Romans burned down Jerusalem and completely destroyed the temple. After this, the Jews never were able to build the temple back up again.

Paul in his letter told the people that the church, the believers who are now in Jesus together, are now the temple of God. The community of believers is the place where God lives on earth, and where people can meet God.

In the book of Revelation we hear that when Jesus will come back to rule the earth, there will not be another temple. There will be no need for a temple, because God will live in the midst of the people\-without any separation!

We find other phrases in the Bible that are used for temple, such as:

* the house of God
* a house of prayer
* a house of sacrifice
* and Jesus called the temple the house of his father.

The Bible also mentions some temples that are dedicated to gods that other people were worshiping, such as the temple of Dagon in the book of Judges or the temple of Artemis in the book of Acts. These temples were very different from the temple in Jerusalem and always contained an idol, a statue of these gods. The temple of God did not have a statue, because God had forbidden the people to ever make an image of God.

**When you are translating "temple," be careful about the following things:**

Your language may have a word that is used for a place of worship that is dedicated to a specific god in your culture. This word may not be right for the word temple in the Bible, unless you give some explanation about the difference. You could maybe say "temple of God" to make clear that it is different from the temples in your community.

Other possible names for the temple are:

* house of God
* house of sacrifices
* special house of God
* house of prayer

Remember that you will also need a different word for tabernacle.

Also, be careful that people do not get confused with the word that you are choosing for synagogue. A synagogue was a place where Jewish people met for prayer and for the study of God's word. People did not offer sacrifices in a synagogue. There were many synagogues, but there is only one temple.

*Look at the pictures of the temple in the Bible video dictionary.*

*Use objects that you have easily available to make a small model of the temple. You could make an outline of the temple with the courtyard, the holy place, and the most holy place with rocks, rope, or other material.*

* **Associated Passages:** ACT 14:8–ACT 14:20; ACT 17:22–ACT 17:34; ACT 19:21–ACT 19:41; ACT 21:15–ACT 21:26; ACT 21:27–ACT 21:36; LUK 4:1–LUK 4:13; LUK 5:12–LUK 5:16; LUK 1:5–LUK 1:25; LUK 2:22–LUK 2:40; LUK 2:41–LUK 2:52; MAT 27:32–MAT 27:44; MAT 27:45–MAT 27:56; MAT 4:1–MAT 4:11; MAT 21:12–MAT 21:22; MAT 21:23–MAT 21:32; MAT 23:37–MAT 24:2; MAT 26:57–MAT 26:68; MAT 27:1–MAT 27:10; MRK 2:23–MRK 3:6; MRK 11:1–MRK 11:11; MRK 11:12–MRK 11:26; MRK 11:27–MRK 11:33; MRK 12:35–MRK 12:37; MRK 12:38–MRK 12:44; MRK 13:1–MRK 13:8; MRK 14:43–MRK 14:52; MRK 14:53–MRK 14:65; MRK 15:16–MRK 15:32; MRK 15:33–MRK 15:39; MAT 23:29–MAT 23:36; MAT 2:1–MAT 2:12; MAT 12:1–MAT 12:14; JHN 11:45–JHN 11:57; LUK 22:1–LUK 22:6; MAT 26:47–MAT 26:56; ACT 26:1–ACT 26:23; MAT 23:13–MAT 23:22; ACT 4:1–ACT 4:22; JHN 7:25–JHN 7:36; JHN 8:12–JHN 8:20; ACT 5:17–ACT 5:26; JHN 10:22–JHN 10:42; JHN 5:1–JHN 5:15; ACT 21:37–ACT 22:21; JHN 2:13–JHN 2:25; ACT 2:41–ACT 2:47; ACT 5:27–ACT 5:42; JHN 7:11–JHN 7:24; JHN 7:45–JHN 7:53; ACT 24:1–ACT 24:9; ACT 3:1–ACT 3:10; JHN 8:1–JHN 8:11; ACT 24:10–ACT 24:23; ACT 25:6–ACT 25:12; LUK 22:47–LUK 22:62; LUK 24:36–LUK 24:53; JHN 8:48–JHN 8:59; LUK 23:44–LUK 23:49; LUK 19:45–LUK 20:8; LUK 21:29–LUK 21:38; LUK 21:5–LUK 21:11
* **Associated Articles:** David (ID: `280046@FIAKeyTerms`); David (ID: `341041@FIAKeyTerms`); forgiveness (ID: `280051@FIAKeyTerms`); worship (ID: `280052@FIAKeyTerms`); forgiveness (ID: `341047@FIAKeyTerms`); worship (ID: `341048@FIAKeyTerms`); sin (ID: `280057@FIAKeyTerms`); high priest (ID: `280074@FIAKeyTerms`); holy (ID: `280086@FIAKeyTerms`); Jerusalem (ID: `280103@FIAKeyTerms`); sin (ID: `341053@FIAKeyTerms`); high priest (ID: `341074@FIAKeyTerms`); holy (ID: `341087@FIAKeyTerms`); Jerusalem (ID: `341106@FIAKeyTerms`); Jew (ID: `280105@FIAKeyTerms`); synagogue (ID: `280124@FIAKeyTerms`); sacrifice (ID: `280139@FIAKeyTerms`); Israelite (ID: `280142@FIAKeyTerms`); pray (ID: `280177@FIAKeyTerms`); priest (ID: `280194@FIAKeyTerms`); clean/unclean (ID: `280195@FIAKeyTerms`); Abraham (ID: `280201@FIAKeyTerms`); Jew (ID: `341109@FIAKeyTerms`); synagogue (ID: `341131@FIAKeyTerms`); sacrifice (ID: `341147@FIAKeyTerms`); Israelite (ID: `341150@FIAKeyTerms`); pray (ID: `341194@FIAKeyTerms`); priest (ID: `341214@FIAKeyTerms`); clean/unclean (ID: `341215@FIAKeyTerms`); Abraham (ID: `341221@FIAKeyTerms`); Israel (ID: `280207@FIAKeyTerms`); heaven (ID: `280214@FIAKeyTerms`); Holy Spirit (ID: `280222@FIAKeyTerms`); altar (ID: `341008@FIAKeyTerms`); tabernacle (ID: `341017@FIAKeyTerms`); king (ID: `341020@FIAKeyTerms`); Levite (ID: `341021@FIAKeyTerms`); idol (ID: `341024@FIAKeyTerms`); altar (ID: `341040@FIAKeyTerms`); tabernacle (ID: `341107@FIAKeyTerms`); king (ID: `341119@FIAKeyTerms`); Levite (ID: `341125@FIAKeyTerms`); idol (ID: `341152@FIAKeyTerms`); Israel (ID: `341229@FIAKeyTerms`); heaven (ID: `341236@FIAKeyTerms`); Holy Spirit (ID: `341246@FIAKeyTerms`)

