# Key Terms (SRV)

## License Information

**Key Terms (SRV)** is based on and adapted from: _Familiarization, Internalization, Articulation (Fia) Terms_, [SRV Partners](https://srvpartners.org/home/), 2023, which is licensed under a [CC BY-SA 4.0 license](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/4.0/legalcode.en).

This markdown version is provided under the same license.



--------------------------------

## scribe (id: 280082)

Teachers of the law were a group of religious leaders who were experts on the law of God.

The law means the set of instructions that God has given the people of Israel in the first five books of the Old Testament, but teachers of the law also taught all the Scriptures, not only the part of Scriptures that talked about the law. Scriptures refers to the part of the Bible that we now call the Old Testament.

Teachers of the law explained the Scriptures to the people. They did not write down their explanations but told them to their students. Their students memorized their explanations, and taught these explanations to the next generation. People kept adding more and more explanations and discussions about explanations. In the time of the New Testament, these memorized explanations had become very important to the people, maybe even more important than the Scriptures themselves.

In the time of the New Testament, teachers of the law were very important people in the community. People showed them great respect and often called them "Rabbi," a title used for important religious teachers. There were also teachers of the law in the Sanhedrin, the Jewish religious court.

Teachers of the law are sometimes called **scribes**. A scribe means someone who can write. Many people in the times of the Bible were not able to read or write themselves. If people needed to write something, like a letter, they would hire a scribe to write for them. Scribes also copied Scripture so that the text of the Scripture would not get lost. The Scriptures were not written down on paper, the way people do now. Books and paper did not yet exist. Instead, the people wrote Scriptures on long strips of papyrus or parchment. Papyrus is a thin sheet that is made from the fibers of a certain plant, and parchment is made from the skin of an animal. Because those sheets were very long, people rolled them up. The name for such a sheet is a scroll. Scrolls could become damaged quickly, especially those scrolls made of papyrus. Therefore scribes were always busy copying the text from one scroll to a new scroll, so that the text would not get lost.

However, when the Bible talks about teachers of the law, the focus is on their knowledge of the religious law, and not on their writing skills.

**When you are translating "teachers of the law," be careful about the following things:**

You should not use a phrase that makes your listeners think that these people are teaching the law of a country. Maybe you can use a phrase like "teachers of the religious law," or "experts of the religious law," or "experts of the Scriptures."

* **Associated Passages:** MAT 17:1–MAT 17:13; MAT 21:12–MAT 21:22; MAT 26:57–MAT 26:68; MRK 3:20–MRK 3:35; MRK 7:1–MRK 7:8; MRK 8:31–MRK 9:1; MRK 9:2–MRK 9:13; MRK 9:14–MRK 9:29; MRK 10:32–MRK 10:45; MRK 11:27–MRK 11:33; MRK 12:28–MRK 12:34; MRK 2:13–MRK 2:17; MAT 8:18–MAT 8:22; MAT 15:1–MAT 15:20; MAT 9:1–MAT 9:8; LUK 22:1–LUK 22:6; MAT 16:21–MAT 16:28; LUK 23:1–LUK 23:12; MAT 23:13–MAT 23:22; ACT 6:8–ACT 6:15; MAT 12:38–MAT 12:45; MAT 23:1–MAT 23:12
* **Associated Articles:** law (ID: `280072@FIAKeyTerms`); law (ID: `341072@FIAKeyTerms`); teachers of the Law (ID: `280073@FIAKeyTerms`); rabbi (ID: `280089@FIAKeyTerms`); teachers of the Law (ID: `341073@FIAKeyTerms`); rabbi (ID: `341090@FIAKeyTerms`); sanhedrin (ID: `280137@FIAKeyTerms`); scriptures (ID: `280175@FIAKeyTerms`); sanhedrin (ID: `341145@FIAKeyTerms`); scriptures (ID: `341191@FIAKeyTerms`)

