# Key Terms (SRV)

## License Information

**Key Terms (SRV)** is based on and adapted from: _Familiarization, Internalization, Articulation (Fia) Terms_, [SRV Partners](https://srvpartners.org/home/), 2023, which is licensed under a [CC BY-SA 4.0 license](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/4.0/legalcode.en).

This markdown version is provided under the same license.



--------------------------------

## shepherd (id: 280153)

A **shepherd** is a person who takes care of sheep and goats. Sheep and goats are animals that people keep in order to use their milk, to eat their meat, and to use their hair for making clothes. Sheep are gentle animals. Goats are similar to sheep, but more temperamental, and harder to lead.

A group of sheep or goats is called a flock. A shepherd is responsible for taking his flock to places where they can find the grass or the plants that they need to eat and where they can drink water. A shepherd had to make sure that not any of the sheep or goats got lost. Being a shepherd was hard work, because they sometimes had to walk far with their animals to find enough food and drink for them, and they often had to stay away from home and sleep outside with their animals. A shepherd also had to protect his flock against wild animals. King David, who was the most beloved king of Israel, was a shepherd before he became king.

Because shepherds were so common in Israel, the word shepherd is often used as picture language for a protector or a ruler. God calls himself the Shepherd of Israel. People are called the sheep of God. Jesus calls himself the Good Shepherd, because he gave his life in order that "his sheep"\-the people\-could be saved from danger.

In the time of the New Testament, some people looked down on shepherds, thinking that they were rough and uneducated people.

* **Associated Passages:** ACT 20:18–ACT 20:38; GEN 48:1–GEN 48:22; MRK 14:27–MRK 14:31; MAT 25:31–MAT 25:46; EXO 2:16–EXO 2:25
* **Associated Articles:** David (ID: `280046@FIAKeyTerms`); David (ID: `341041@FIAKeyTerms`); Israel (ID: `280207@FIAKeyTerms`); king (ID: `341020@FIAKeyTerms`); king (ID: `341119@FIAKeyTerms`); Israel (ID: `341229@FIAKeyTerms`)

