# Familiarization, Internalization, Articulation (FIA) Key Terms

## License Information

**Familiarization, Internalization, Articulation (FIA) Key Terms** is based on and adapted from: _Familiarization, Internalization, Articulation (Fia) Terms_, [SRV Partners](https://srvpartners.org/home/), 2023, which is licensed under a [CC BY-SA 4.0 license](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/4.0/legalcode.en).

This markdown version is provided under the same license.



--------------------------------

## yoke (id: 341015)

A **yoke** is a wooden collar with two openings that people use to tie two oxen or two other animals together. Then the animals can walk together to pull a plow or a cart. The yoke helps the animals to walk in step with each other so that they can pull their load smoothly. For this to work, the animals have to be about the same size.

The Bible sometimes uses yoke as special language for being married. When two people are married to each other, but they are not suitable for each other, you can say that they are unequally yoked together. It is as if two different animals are trying to pull a load, but they are going at different speeds. The result is a very bumpy ride!

People can also force a person to carry a yoke if the person is a slave or a prisoner. The Bible sometimes uses the word yoke as special language to talk about slavery or hardship. When someone has to work very hard, you can say that he is carrying a heavy yoke.

* **Associated Passages:** GEN 27:30–GEN 27:40
* **Associated Articles:** slave (ID: `280197@FIAKeyTerms`); slave (ID: `341217@FIAKeyTerms`)

