# Familiarization, Internalization, Articulation (FIA) Key Terms

## License Information

**Familiarization, Internalization, Articulation (FIA) Key Terms** is based on and adapted from: _Familiarization, Internalization, Articulation (Fia) Terms_, [SRV Partners](https://srvpartners.org/home/), 2023, which is licensed under a [CC BY-SA 4.0 license](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/4.0/legalcode.en).

This markdown version is provided under the same license.



--------------------------------

## wisdom (id: 280066)

When someone is wise, he has **wisdom**. In the Bible, a person who has wisdom understands many things, and is able to make good decisions that lead to good results. When a person has certain skills, like the ability to build or to make something beautiful, the Bible also says that this person has wisdom.

It is God who gives wisdom to people. If a person pretends to be wise but does not accept God, then his wisdom is useless, and eventually his plans will fail. Only a person who accepts and obeys God can be truly wise.

We can hear a lot about wisdom in the book of Proverbs. In this book, the author sometimes talks about wisdom as if it is a person. This is picture language that people used to help others learn about wisdom. And so, Proverbs can say that "wisdom is calling out to people, trying to make people wise." Wisdom is calling just as a person would call. In 1 Corinthians, Paul talks about Jesus and calls Jesus the "wisdom of God." God's plan to save the world through Jesus was very wise\-and therefore, we can be sure that this plan will work!

* **Associated Passages:** LUK 7:18–LUK 7:35; LUK 2:22–LUK 2:40; LUK 2:41–LUK 2:52; MAT 13:54–MAT 13:58; MAT 24:45–MAT 24:51; MRK 6:1–MRK 6:6; LUK 11:14–LUK 11:32; MAT 11:7–MAT 11:19; MAT 25:1–MAT 25:13; ACT 6:8–ACT 6:15; LUK 21:12–LUK 21:19; MAT 10:16–MAT 10:25; MAT 12:38–MAT 12:45; LUK 21:20–LUK 21:28; LUK 11:33–LUK 11:54

